results including high-quality assurance without creating undue burdens and costs for business; and how it could develop in the future. It has three broad themes: Choice of sustainability assurance provider and competition Market capacity, opportunities and barriers to entry/expansion The regulatory framework including how changing international requirements could affect the UK market. Information gathering and stakeholder engagement Following the launch of the market study, we have gathered information and data from several sources. A third-party provider Minerva Analytics Ltd collated publicly available data on the assurance of sustainability information reported by the FTSE 350 companies since 2019. Through 32 one-to-one meetings and 10 roundtables, we engaged with over 100 stakeholders. These included FTSE 350 companies, private UK companies, audit and non-audit firm providers of sustainability assurance, sustainability consultancies, investors, professional and industry trade bodies, academics and other institutions with an interest in sustainability. We received 31 written submissions to our launch document. Many of these have been published at: www.frc.org.uk/consultations/assurance-of-sustainability- reporting-market-study/ We would like to take this opportunity to thank all stakeholders who have engaged with us to date. Next steps Alongside obtaining written submissions on our emerging findings, we intend to hold further meetings with stakeholders. We are planning to conclude the market study and produce our final report with any proposals for action by early 2025. Summary – key emerging findings Based on the data and stakeholder views gathered to date, we have identified four key findings. Market trends – demand for sustainability assurance In this section we set out key emerging findings from the data gathered by Minerva Analytics Ltd on the sustainability assurance obtained by FTSE 350 companies between 2019 and 2022. Demand for sustainability assurance is growing amongst FTSE 350 companies The proportion of FTSE 350 companies that obtained sustainability assurance grew by 19 percentage