sustainability factors on an entity’s activities; or (ii) the entity’s own impact on the economy, the environment, or the public. 5 Climate reporting in the UK is aligned to the Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and operates on a comply or explain basis for listed and FCA regulated entities. For those companies reporting under The Companies Act regulations mandatory climate related financial disclosures are reported in the Non Financial and Sustainability Information Statement (NFSIS). Other mandatory sustainability reporting requirements include SECR (Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting) and reporting of the company's impact on the environment, as well as information on environmental matters, employees, social, community and human rights issues in Companies Act s414C and s414CB (NFSIS). There are also other pieces of sustainability reporting in mandatory areas such as Companies Act s172 disclosures. 6 IFAC, State of Play in Sustainability Assurance: 2019-2022 Trends & Analysis, February 2024. 7 The most prevalent of these is ISAE3000, which was found to be used in 68% of the sustainability assurance opinions published by the FTSE100 in 2022. Source: IFAC, State of Play in Sustainability Assurance: 2019-2022 Trends & Analysis, February 2024. The European Commission passed the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) in January 2023. CSRD requires ‘large undertakings’8 to publish specified sustainability information and obtain limited assurance over this information. Certain companies are subject to these requirements (from 1 January 2024), which will impact their corporate reporting from 2025 onwards. These requirements are likely to affect a number of UK-based companies and assurance providers. The International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA) is currently consulting on proposed frameworks for expected behaviours and ethical provisions for all sustainability assurance providers. These frameworks are currently subject to consultation and, once finalised, are likely to have an impact on the market. Proposed focus