Ltd 7 Note: Many assurance engagements in the FTSE 350 are carried out at different levels often using different assurance standards. For example, a company may decide to obtain assurance over their greenhouse gas emissions at a reasonable level under ISAE 3410 but obtain limited assurance over certain other sustainability metrics under ISAE 3000. Figure 10 would capture this assurance engagement twice. Market study themes: findings and evidence In this section, we set out our key findings by each of the three themes for the market study. The findings are broadly consistent with our emerging findings, which we published in October 2024. However, in light of the additional feedback from stakeholders, we have revised Finding III to capture the importance of more education and communication about sustainability assurance to help bridge gaps in knowledge and understanding within the market. Theme 1: choice and competition In 2023, there were 59 providers of assurance to FTSE 350 companies, which demonstrates a degree of choice and variety of providers in the market. The majority of stakeholders reported sufficient choice in the market with no difficulties in appointing a suitable sustainability assurance provider, particularly amongst larger FTSE- listed companies. However, some smaller companies reported difficulties finding a suitably qualified provider within their price range, which was often lower than that of larger companies. Whilst most companies noted that they had adequate choice, many expressed concerns over their ability to identify suitably qualified providers and assess the quality of the assurance delivered by prospective providers. Some stakeholders felt that buyers of assurance, such as companies, and wider stakeholders, including investors, were not always clear on how various assurance services differed. The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) said that in its own outreach “the majority of respondents did not feel capable of choosing a sustainability