limited to a few providers. All non-audit assurance providers felt that choice was being limited by a perception that the Big Four audit firms (or audit firms more generally) were best placed to provide assurance. Some stakeholders noted that there are smaller non-audit firms that are unable to provide assurance over a growing range of sustainability metrics, so may be unable to compete for some larger engagements. Many stakeholders told us that companies are increasingly using a formal tender process to select an assurance provider. Most providers of assurance noted this increase; some told us that they often compete with three to four providers in a tender. Some non-audit firm providers noted difficulties in winning tenders when competing with audit firms; they win most of their assurance engagements through direct appointments, often by cross-selling to existing clients. Most companies told us that the primary factors they considered when selecting a sustainability assurance provider related to their perceived quality, such as subject matter expertise, reputation and experience. Many stakeholders reported that price is also a factor, particularly among companies with less experience of sustainability assurance services. Some stakeholders told us that a provider’s global presence can influence selection, particularly if they are multinational companies with operations across the world. Stakeholder views – interplay with audit Most audit firms, and many companies, noted that there are synergies in appointing the same provider for statutory audit and sustainability assurance. Audit firms commented on the requirement for an auditor to check for consistency between non-financial and financial reporting. Some stakeholders suggested future sustainability reporting standards will drive greater connectivity between financial and sustainability data. Audit firms said they had expertise in assessing and understanding companies’ control environments, governance structures and reporting processes, so had deeper knowledge of the businesses they audit. Many non-audit firms