identify further emerging issues? Further reading Paras 81- 84 FRC Guidance on Audit Committees (April 2016) Effectiveness of the audit committee Conversation starter Please explain how the committee evaluates its own effectiveness. Suggested follow-ups Have you made any changes as a result of these evaluations? The demands upon the committee with regards to upcoming amendments to, or new, regulation and emerging areas of risk such as climate, ESG and cyber are increasing all the time. Are you concerned about the resultant increase in workload for the committee? What measures have you taken to ensure that committee members have the skillset to oversee these emerging risks? Is the committee sufficiently diverse to avoid groupthink? Can you give examples of how the committee has challenged company management? What measures have you taken to ensure comments from your internal and/or external auditors regarding the effectiveness of the committee have been considered and relevant actions taken? How often were emerging areas of risk considered and addressed by the committee? Further reading Paras 11-17 FRC Guidance on Audit Committees (April 2016) Para 81 FRC Guidance on Audit Committees (April 2016) P19 What makes a good…Environment for Auditor Skepticism and Challenge, (November 2022) Principal risks Conversation starter Please describe the committee's role in the oversight of management's principal risk disclosures in the annual report. Suggested follow-ups What was the committee's role with regards to disclosures around principal risks, going concern, viability, the description of the business model and how opportunities and risks to the business over the longer term have been considered? How does the committee take into account other, emerging areas of risk - such as supply chain resilience, geopolitical, pandemic, etc.? Further reading Para 44 FRC Guidance on Audit Committees (April 2016) Risks - climate Conversation starter Please describe the committee's role in relation