company law. Paragraph 30.21 is amended to specify procedures for translating the financial statements of an entity whose functional currency is the currency of a hyperinflationary economy into a different presentation currency. Section 31 Hyperinflation The requirement in paragraph 31.13 to recognise gains or losses on an entity’s net monetary position in profit or loss is amended for consistency with company law. Section 32 Events after the End of the Reporting Period Paragraphs 32.7A and 32.7B are inserted to provide guidance on the impact of changes in an entity’s going concern status. The requirement in paragraph 32.9 to disclose if an entity’s owners or others have the power to amend the financial statements after issue has been removed for consistency with company law. Section 33 Related Party Disclosures Paragraph 33.1A is inserted to provide an exemption, from disclosing related party transactions between wholly-owned entities, available in company law. Paragraph 33.7A is inserted to include an exemption from the disclosure of key management personnel compensation for companies that are required by company law to disclose directors’ remuneration if the key management personnel and directors are the same. Section 34 Specialised Activities Agricultural Activities – this sub-section is amended to allow the option to hold biological assets and agricultural produce at cost. Extractive Activities – this sub-section has been amended to require application of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources. Service Concession Arrangements – this sub-section is amended to clarify the accounting by operators based on IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements and provide guidance to grantors. The sub-section is also amended to require additional disclosures derived from SIC-29 Disclosure—Service Concession Arrangements. The following additional sub-sections are inserted: Financial Institutions – specifies additional required disclosures for financial institutions; Retirement Benefit Plans: Financial Statements – specifies disclosures and presentation requirements for