that the department is forecast to underspend against its budgets for the year, and is incentivised to minimise any underspend. The manager agrees that the grant expenditure has been recognised in reference to the grant conditions, but notes the HM Treasury requirements on avoiding payments in advance of need, which are relevant to a separate audit opinion on the ‘regularity’ of transactions.4 The manager and trainee agree that further work is required to assess whether a material irregular transaction has occurred. International Standard on Auditing (UK) 200 (Revised June 2016) (Updated January 2020), Overall objectives of the independent auditor and the conduct of an audit in accordance with international standards on auditing (UK), paragraph 13(l). Practice Note 10: Audit of financial statements and regularity of public sector bodies in the United Kingdom (Revised 2020) FRC | Professional Judgement Guidance 5 Understanding of biases and other relevant psychological factors There are a range of biases that can hinder logical and objective reasoning. These can subconsciously affect the judgement processes of everyone, including highly skilled and experienced auditors. Such biases may include:5 Availability bias: a tendency to place more weight on events or experiences that immediately come to mind or are readily available than on those that are not. Confirmation bias: a tendency to place more weight on information that corroborates an existing belief than information that contradicts or casts doubt on that belief. Groupthink: a tendency to think or make decisions as a group that discourages creativity or individual responsibility. Overconfidence: a tendency to overestimate one’s own ability to make accurate assessments of risk or other judgements or decisions. Anchoring bias: a tendency to use an initial piece of information as an anchor against which subsequent information is inadequately assessed. Automation bias: a tendency to favor output generated from automated systems,