conditions in FRS 102, however, apply equally to debt instruments that are assets or liabilities. B11.10 The amendments were intended to ensure that common financial instruments can be measured at amortised cost, when measurement at amortised cost is appropriate. They also aligned FRS 102 more closely with the measurement requirements of IFRS Accounting Standards. B11.11 Paragraph 11.8 included a list of financial instruments that were classified as ‘basic’. For some of these financial instruments, the classification as ‘basic’ or ‘other’ was further dependent on meeting a list of prescriptive conditions; for debt instruments these were set out in paragraph 11.9. Feedback from stakeholders, as part of the Triennial Review 2017, clearly highlighted that this rules-based classification caused significant problems for those applying FRS 102, highlighting a number of judgement areas and other implementation difficulties. B11.12 As a result, as part of the Triennial review 2017 amendments, in addition to those debt instruments that meet the conditions in paragraph 11.9, a debt instrument shall be classified as ‘basic’ if it is consistent with a principle-based description of a ‘basic’ financial instrument. This description, set out in paragraph 11.9A, need only be considered for debt instruments that do not meet the detailed conditions in paragraph 11.9. Making such a change better articulated the principle for classification as ‘basic’ financial instruments and set the boundary for more complex debt instruments. B11.13 The description requires a ‘basic’ debt instrument to give rise to cash flows on specified dates that constitute reasonable compensation for the time value of money, credit risk and other basic lending risks and costs. Such reasonable compensation is dependent on the prevailing economic conditions and monetary policies in operation. B11.14 In addition, amendments were made to the examples following paragraph 11.9A, including the addition of new examples to address feedback from