of paragraphs 34.39 to 34.48. Interest rate benchmark reform An entity shall disclose information on the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments subject to interest rate benchmark reform, how the entity manages those risks and the entity’s progress in completing the transition from interest rate benchmarks to alternative benchmark rates. An entity that has applied the practical expedient in paragraph 11.20C shall disclose that fact. It shall also consider whether any further disclosure is necessary, for example in accordance with paragraphs 8.6 and 8.7. Section 12 Other Financial Instruments Issues Scope of Sections 11 and 12 This section and Section 11 Basic Financial Instruments together set out the requirements for the recognition, derecognition, measurement, and disclosure of financial instruments (financial assets and financial liabilities). Section 11 applies to basic financial instruments and is relevant to all entities. This section applies to other, more complex financial instruments and transactions. If an entity enters into only basic financial instrument transactions then this section is not applicable. However, even entities with only basic financial instruments shall consider the scope of this section to ensure that this section does not apply. PBE12.1A Public benefit entities or other members of a public benefit entity group that make or receive public benefit entity concessionary loans shall refer to the relevant paragraphs of Section 34 Specialised Activities for the accounting requirements for such loans, irrespective of the accounting policy choice made in accordance with paragraph 12.2. Accounting policy choice An entity shall choose to apply either: the provisions of both Section 11 and Section 12 in full; or the recognition and measurement provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (as adopted in the relevant jurisdiction)50, the disclosure requirements of Sections 11 and 12 and the presentation requirements of paragraphs 11.38A and 12.25W;