period and as at the reporting date respectively; the amount of any such provisions made in respect of the reporting period; the amount of any adjustments made in respect of any such provisions during the reporting period in consequence of the disposal of any assets; and the amount of any other adjustments made in respect of any such provisions during the reporting period. (Schedule 1, paragraph 48(3)) These two paragraphs apply to all fixed assets, including investment property, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets (including goodwill), right-of-use assets, fixed asset investments, biological assets and heritage assets recognised in the statement of financial position. Each item refers to a class of fixed assets shown separately either in the statement of financial position, or in the notes to the financial statements. These reconciliations need not be presented for prior periods. Paragraph 16.10(e) addresses similar requirements for investment property. Paragraphs 17.31(d) and (e) address similar requirements for property, plant and equipment. Paragraphs 18.27(c) and (e) address similar requirements for intangible assets other than goodwill. Paragraph 19.26 addresses similar requirements for goodwill. Paragraphs 20.81(a) and (b) address similar requirements for right-of-use assets. Paragraphs 34.7(c) and 34.10(e) address similar requirements for biological assets. Paragraphs 34.55(e) and (f) address similar requirements for heritage assets recognised in the statement of financial position. Fixed assets measured at revalued amounts 1AC.14 Where fixed assets are measured at revalued amounts the items affected and the basis of valuation adopted in determining the amounts of the assets in question in the case of each such item must be disclosed in the note on accounting policies. (Schedule 1, paragraph 34(2)) These requirements apply when: investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income. Paragraph 9.27(b) addresses a similar disclosure