leases, substantively reducing the impact of applying this new model. Other simplifications B20.12 Other areas where optional simplifications were introduced compared to the requirements of IFRS 16 are: Introduction of the lessee’s obtainable borrowing rate as an alternative to the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate. Whilst representing a broadly similar concept, the lessee’s obtainable borrowing rate is expected to be simpler to determine and therefore represents a proportionate simplification. For public benefit entities, a further simplification is offered: on the basis that some public benefit entities may not borrow, a public benefit entity that is unable readily to determine either the interest rate implicit in the lease, or its incremental borrowing rate or obtainable borrowing rate, shall use the rate of interest otherwise obtainable by the public benefit entity on deposits held with financial institutions. Reducing the number of situations in which a lease modification requires the determination of a revised discount rate. Offering the option of a simpler approach to recognising gains and losses on sale and leaseback transactions, similar to the approach in the previous edition of FRS 102. Leases containing a non-exchange component B20.13 FRS 102, unlike IFRS Accounting Standards, contains guidance for public benefit entities on accounting for incoming resources from non-exchange transactions. Stakeholders identified that some arrangements might contain both a lease and a non-exchange component. B20.14 One such class of arrangements have the legal form of a lease, but with nil or nominal consideration (eg ‘peppercorn leases’). The FRC considered that if the consideration was not substantive, it was unlikely that the arrangement contained a lease as defined in FRS 102. In such cases, the arrangement would not be in scope of Section 20 and the requirements of Section 34 Specialised Activities regarding incoming resources from non-exchange transactions would apply as for other donations. B20.15