entity would otherwise have recognised is one year or less). Section 24 Government Grants Scope of this section This section applies to government grants. PBE24.1A The accounting for incoming resources from non-exchange transactions other than government grants is addressed in paragraphs PBE34.64 to PBE34.74. Government grants exclude those forms of government assistance that cannot reasonably have a value placed upon them and transactions with government that cannot be distinguished from the normal trading transactions of the entity. This section does not cover government assistance that is provided for an entity in the form of reliefs and deductions that are available in determining taxable profit (tax loss), or government assistance that is determined or limited on the basis of income tax liability. Examples of such government assistance are income tax holidays, investment tax credits, accelerated depreciation allowances and reduced income tax rates. Section 29 Income Tax covers accounting for taxes based on income. Recognition and measurement A Government grants, including non-monetary grants, shall not be recognised until there is reasonable assurance that: the entity will comply with the conditions attaching to them; and the grants will be received. An entity shall recognise grants either based on the performance model or the accrual model. This policy choice shall be applied on a class-by-class basis. An entity shall measure grants at the fair value of the asset received or receivable. 24.5A Where a grant becomes repayable it shall be recognised as a liability when the repayment meets the definition of a liability. Performance model 24.5B An entity applying the performance model shall recognise grants as follows: A grant that does not impose specified future performance-related conditions on the recipient is recognised in income when the grant proceeds are received or receivable. A grant that imposes specified future performance-related conditions on the recipient is