and requested that FRS 102 clarify their classification. It was noted that such structured financial instruments are not based on contracts that are standardised across an industry. As a result, the repayment of principal and interest on such loans can be impacted in a complex way by a number of different variables defined in the contractual terms. Therefore it was not possible to conclude on the classification of such financial instruments without a close reading of the individual contracts and an understanding of the detailed clauses. Therefore, the reporting entity’s directors should apply their judgement to determine whether the contractual terms enable a financial instrument to be classified as basic in accordance with the requirements in FRS 102. Classification subsequent to initial recognition B11.20 The FRC noted that the initial classification assessment of a financial instrument should take into account the relevant clauses dealing with the returns and any subsequent contractual variations relating to returns, prepayments and extensions of terms etc. Once the classification of a financial instrument is determined at initial recognition, no re-assessment is required at subsequent dates unless there is a modification of contractual terms. From December 2017 this requirement has been reflected in paragraph 11.6A. Measurement of financial instruments Interaction with the Regulations or LLP Regulations on measurement of certain financial instruments B11.21 The FRC was made aware of an issue in relation to a conflict between the Regulations and LLP Regulations and the requirements in FRS 102 (as originally issued in March 2013) regarding the measurement of some financial liabilities. The original text of FRS 102 could have resulted in the standard requiring certain financial liabilities to be measured at fair value when such measurement may be prohibited by the Regulations. The Regulations prohibit the measurement of financial liabilities at fair value, except for those