practice. Based on the audit team’s sector knowledge and business understanding, audit teams must clearly record their informed expectations relating to several key financial metrics and key performance indicators (KPIs). The exact extent and detail for these expectations will vary depending on the entity and information available to the auditor. The basis for these auditor expectations must be explained and referenced to source material such as sector reports, benchmarking data and any key agreements or other data already obtained from management. This knowledge will be critical for performing the planning analytical review and potentially identifying when it may be necessary to challenge management. These expectations (including confirmation as to the veracity and reasonableness of any external data sources used), when combined with the other risk assessment and planning procedures, will form a bedrock for the audit approach and delivery plan. Planning analytical review: If completed with a narrow compliance mind-set to quickly move on to the fieldwork, this planning analytical review will have very limited value. If, however, the analytical review is completed well, using the principles in the ISAs (UK) to drive the work, it will add rigour to the audit, increasing both efficiency and effectiveness. An effective review will blend the team’s knowledge, expectations and year-to-date management information to either confirm the preliminary risk assessment or identify counter-intuitive trends and relationships which may indicate a knowledge gap, a new risk or the possible signs of a fraud. The nature of these potential anomalies must be resolved before the start of fieldwork so that, either knowledge gaps are filled and the necessary additional information obtained, or the audit risk assessment and response is updated, the changes clearly documented and the impact on the planned audit procedures fully considered. When dealing with large groups, auditors must take particular care in