effective means of identifying potential improvements and lessons. Formal written communications about audit quality and values should contain specific links to the desired auditor behaviours with concrete examples of how to achieve and enact them in practice. Using a variety of channels and techniques will optimise the impact of key messages, as auditors may have differing preferences for how they like to receive messages. Demonstrating commitment to the desired audit behaviours should not be a one-off exercise. Messages need to be continually reinforced through a variety of written, verbal, formal and informal communication methods, for example, giving informal praise to auditors for demonstrating these behaviours. ‘Top down’ communication from audit leaders is critical to instilling key messaging into engagement teams regarding the importance of scepticism and challenge. Audit firms’ leadership must drive communications through words and actions, including active role modelling, to demonstrate their commitment to supporting all auditors in exercising challenge and discussing and learning from mistakes without fear. Good practice – communication| “Some firms use storytelling within their communications to show how the desired values and behaviours in audit have been demonstrated and made a difference in practice.” “Some firms introduce specific prompts to enact the audit behaviours during engagements, such as standard meeting agenda items, ‘step back’ meetings and ad-hoc prompts throughout the engagement to assess the critical audit behaviours.” “One firm writes a series of ‘bitesize bulletins’ spotlighting auditors from various grades who had challenged management to showcase what challenge looks like in action.”| Reward and Recognition Mechanisms for reward and recognition include appraisals, remuneration, in-year rewards, and promotions. Where these are appropriately aligned, they can be used to encourage desired behaviours, including professional scepticism and challenge. Appraisals that specifically reflect on audit behaviours and quality outcomes show the value placed on these and encourage individuals