and remediation must be appropriately designed to respond to the quality risks identified by the firm. Where findings are identified, for example from root cause analysis (following internal and external quality reviews), quality improvement plans, market developments or a substantiated complaint, deficiencies identified should trigger decisive corrective action. A high-quality audit firm will have granular oversight of this process and ensure that the actions are appropriately communicated within the firm. There may be other key inputs into the feedback loop for example: The perspective of external stakeholders; Financial and non-financial relevant audit quality indicators (AQIs) which we explored in May 20204; Evolution in the firm’s audit practice to normalise developments in good practice and to respond to innovation; Indicators of behaviour derived from the firm’s culture assessment; and Key messages from staff engagement (e.g. surveys) can also provide useful feedback and intelligence. The culture of the firm needs to embrace improvements, foster quality and generate ideas from across the audit practice: avoiding the ‘status-quo’ or ‘group-think’. It is important to create a culture of trust, whereby people are encouraged to openly talk about mistakes and learn from them. A diverse and open culture of challenge and continuous improvement, from across the spectrum of the firm’s people and experiences, and considering external stakeholders will assist firms on this journey. 4 https://www.frc.org.uk/getattachment/3d773d0b-04ec-4f03-ae53-78231f356807/AQTR_AQI_Final.pdf What we have seen – Monitoring and remediation Root Cause Analysis (RCA): “The RCA dashboard tool allows the firm to look at themes across sub-components of the RCA population. Effective assessment of the aggregate information within the tool has enabled further targeted thematic RCA analysis (e.g. thematic RCA on cash-flows, lead to identification of knowledge gap.)” “The continual nature of the approach allows RCA activities to be performed using multiple sources of quality issue/ findings, (for example through AQI monitoring