providers told us that the uncertainty around the UK’s future regulatory position inhibited these necessary investments. Stakeholder views – changes in the UK sustainability assurance market Most stakeholders expressed a desire for regulation in the UK sustainability assurance market but they had different views on the form it should take. Audit firms in particular voiced support for a mandatory assurance regime, and some said the FRC should be a key part of it. Many investors and companies wanted businesses to be able to decide what metrics they should have assured and what level of assurance they should obtain. Many companies called for greater alignment between international standards and expectations (including sustainability reporting). Many companies wanted to see a range of assurance providers operating in the market, including non-audit firms, and did not want any regulation that might limit choice. Many stakeholders requested a level playing field for qualifications and supervision of providers of sustainability assurance. Some said they would be keen for the Government to revisit the proposal for companies to have an Audit & Assurance Policy and incorporate sustainability assurance within this. Stakeholder views – international regulatory developments Impact of regulatory developments Stakeholders commented that CSRD will have a considerable impact on UK entities with significant operations in the EU. Developments in other jurisdictions, such as Japan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Australia, New Zealand and California, might also have an impact. The multitude of requirements was adding complexity and putting strain on providers and preparers (multinationals, in particular). Many stakeholders said the UK needs to ‘catch up’ with these other jurisdictions and agree a regulatory regime for sustainability assurance. Stakeholders told us of significant variance between assurance requirements in different jurisdictions. Some jurisdictions were proposing to limit the ability of non-audit firms to provide sustainability assurance. Different jurisdictions have suggested different