and net investment hedges; it allows the option for entities to apply the macro-hedging requirements of IAS 39 whilst using the recognition and measurement requirements of Section 11 and 12; it introduces a documentation requirement in cases of voluntary hedge accounting discontinuation; and it deals with the financial reporting implications associated with the replacement of interest rate benchmarks. Paragraph 12.25W is inserted to allow offsetting of certain financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position. Paragraph 12.26 is amended to comply with company law. Paragraphs 12.28 and 12.29 are deleted and replaced with paragraphs 12.28 to 12.29A to included revised disclosure requirements for the three hedge accounting models, ie cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges. Paragraph 12.30 is inserted to require additional disclosures when an entity applies the hedge accounting requirements associated with the replacement of interest rate benchmarks. The Appendix to Section 12 is inserted to illustrate by way of example the application of the hedge accounting requirements. Section 13 Inventories Paragraph 13.3 is amended to permit inventory to be measured at fair value less costs to sell through profit or loss in certain circumstances. Paragraphs 13.4A and 13.20A are inserted to provide guidance on inventories held for distribution at no or nominal consideration. Paragraph 13.5A is inserted to provide guidance on inventory acquired through non-exchange transactions. Paragraph 13.8A is inserted to clarify the treatment for provisions made against dismantling and restoration costs (of PPE) in the cost of inventory. Paragraph 13.12 is deleted because of the revisions to the hedge accounting requirements. Paragraph 13.15 is amended to allow for the inclusion of a cost model for agricultural produce in Section 34 Specialised Activities. Paragraph 13.22(c) is deleted to remove the requirement to disclose the amount of inventories recognised as an expense during the