in comparison to the carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss. Key FRS 102 references 11.33 to 11.35 11.35 11.36 to 11.38 Disclosures Various disclosures are required about financial instruments. The following does not necessarily apply to a qualifying entity that takes advantage of reduced disclosures as set out in Section 1 Scope of FRS 102, nor to a small entity applying Section 1A Small Entities. Disclosure requirements include the significant accounting policies and measurement bases for financial instruments and the carrying amounts of financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss. Various items of income, expense, gains and losses must be disclosed including changes in fair value, interest income and expense, and impairment losses. Paragraph 11.42 contains a significant requirement: This is a principle-based disclosure requirement. Examples are given of possible disclosures for a debt instrument, such as interest rate, maturity, repayment schedule and any restrictions on the entity. However, entities will need to consider carefully what information is needed by users. As part of the triennial review of FRS 102, paragraph 11.42 was expanded to note that when the risks arising from financial instruments are particularly significant to the business (for example they are principal risks for the entity) additional disclosures may be required. Financial institutions and retirement benefit plans Additional disclosure is required by financial institutions and retirement benefit plans. These are set out in separate sub-sections of Section 34 Specialised Activities. Key FRS 102 references 11.40 to 11.48A 11.48B 11.48C Other financial instruments issues This applies to financial instruments that are within the scope of Section 12. Subsequent measurement Other financial instruments shall normally be measured at fair value, with the change in fair value recognised in profit or loss. There are some exceptions to this, such as in certain hedge accounting relationships