34 Specialised Activities. This Staff Education Note is written to highlight key areas of consideration when transitioning to FRS 102 and is not designed to be exhaustive. Accounting treatment Recognition Statement of Principles: Interpretation for public benefit entities|FRS 102| Donations of cash, goods and services should be recognised when they can be measured with sufficient reliability. (Paragraph 4.48)|There is a consistent approach between accounting for non-exchange transactions and the performance model of accounting for grants (set out in Section 24 Government Grants). An entity shall recognise receipts of resources from non-exchange transactions as follows: Transactions that do not impose specified future performance-related conditions on the recipient are recognised as income when the resources are received or receivable; and Transactions that do impose specified future performance-related conditions on the recipient are recognised in income only when the performance-related conditions are met. where resources are received before the revenue recognition criteria are satisfied, a liability is recognised. (FRS 102 paragraph PBE34.67) When applying the above requirements, an entity must take into consideration whether the resource can be measured reliably and whether the benefits of recognising the resource outweigh the costs. (FRS 102 paragraph PBE34.69) Therefore, where it is not practicable to estimate the value of the resource with sufficient reliability, the income shall be included in the financial period when the resource is sold. (FRS 102 paragraph PBE34.70)| The overall principle that the resources received or receivable should be capable of being measured with sufficient reliability is consistent. As an accounting standard, FRS 102 provides more detail on when resources might be considered receivable and provides further guidance on applying the principles to specific circumstances. Measurement Statement of Principles: Interpretation for public benefit entities|FRS 102| Measurement should be based on the current value to the recipient. (Paragraph 4.48)|An entity shall measure incoming