inserted to require disclosure of material accounting policy information, in line with the 2021 amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. Section 9 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The scope of this section is amended to clarify that it applies to all parent entities that present consolidated financial statements intended to give a true and fair view. The requirements to present consolidated financial statements are amended to comply with company law. Clarification is added to paragraph 9.10 that Employee Share Ownership Plans and similar arrangements are Special Purpose Entities. Paragraph 9.13(d) is amended to clarify the measurement of non-controlling interests. Paragraphs 9.18 and 9.19 have been amended, and paragraphs 9.18A, 9.18B and 9.19A to 9.19D have been inserted, to include more detailed requirements for the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries. Paragraph 9.23(d) is inserted to require disclosures about unconsolidated subsidiaries. Paragraph 9.23(e) is inserted to require additional disclosures of unconsolidated Special Purpose Entities. This disclosure is derived from IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities. Paragraph 9.23A of the IFRS for SMEs Accounting Standard covers the disclosure of subsidiaries that are not consolidated based on the requirements to present consolidated accounts. As the disclosures of unconsolidated subsidiaries required by paragraph 9.23 were considered sufficient, the paragraph was deleted. Paragraph 9.23A is replaced and paragraphs 9.24 and 9.25 are amended to clarify the distinction between the individual financial statements and separate financial statements and that company law specifies when individual financial statements are required to be prepared. Paragraph 9.26 is amended to remove the option for an entity to account for investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities in its financial statements using the equity method. Paragraphs 9.28 to 9.30 relating to combined financial statements are deleted. Paragraphs 9.31 and 9.32 provide guidance on exchanges of businesses or