Materiality Information is material if omitting, misstating or obscuring it could reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the users of general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements. Materiality is an entity-specific aspect of relevance that depends on the nature or magnitude of information, or both. An entity assesses whether information, either individually or in combination with other information, is material in the context of its financial statements taken as a whole. Information is obscured if it is communicated in a way that would have a similar effect for users of general purpose financial statements to omitting or misstating that information. Examples of circumstances that may result in information being obscured could include: usage of vague or unclear language; inappropriate aggregation of dissimilar information or disaggregation of similar information; and hiding material information using immaterial information. Faithful representation Financial statements represent economic phenomena in words and numbers. To be useful, financial information must not only represent relevant phenomena, but it must also faithfully represent the substance of the phenomena that it purports to represent. In many circumstances, the substance of an economic phenomenon and its legal form are the same. If they are not the same, providing information only about the legal form would not faithfully represent the economic phenomenon. To be a perfectly faithful representation, a depiction would be complete, neutral and free from error. Faithful representation involves maximising those qualities but does not mean being accurate in all respects. A complete depiction includes all information necessary for a user to understand the phenomenon being depicted, including all necessary descriptions and explanations. A neutral depiction is without bias in the selection or presentation of financial information. Neutrality is supported by the exercise of prudence. Prudence is the exercise of caution when making judgements under