shall not recognise such expenditure as intangible assets: Internally generated brands, logos, publishing titles, customer lists and items similar in substance. Start-up activities (ie start-up costs), which include establishment costs such as legal and secretarial costs incurred in establishing a legal entity, expenditure to open a new facility or business (ie pre-opening costs) and expenditure for starting new operations or launching new products or processes (ie pre-operating costs). Training activities. Advertising and promotional activities (unless it meets the definition of inventories held for distribution at no or nominal consideration (see paragraph 13.4A)). Relocating or reorganising part or all of an entity. Internally generated goodwill. 18.8D Paragraph 18.8C does not preclude recognising a prepayment as an asset when payment for goods or services has been made in advance of the delivery of the goods or the rendering of the services. Research phase 18.8E No intangible asset arising from research (or from the research phase of an internal project) shall be recognised. Expenditure on research (or on the research phase of an internal project) shall be recognised as an expense when it is incurred. 18.8F In the research phase of an internal project, an entity cannot demonstrate that an intangible asset exists that will generate probable future economic benefits. 18.8G Examples of research activities are: Activities aimed at obtaining new knowledge. The search for, evaluation and final selection of, applications of research findings and other knowledge. The search for alternatives for materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services. The formulation, design, evaluation and final selection of possible alternatives for new or improved material, devices, projects, processes, systems or services. Development phase 18.8H An entity may recognise an intangible asset arising from development (or from the development phase of an internal project) if, and only if, an entity can demonstrate all of the