operations. Liquidity risk A financial institution shall provide a maturity analysis for financial liabilities that shows the remaining contractual maturities at undiscounted amounts separated between derivative and non-derivative financial liabilities, and with lease liabilities presented separately within non-derivative financial liabilities. Market risk A financial institution shall provide a sensitivity analysis for each type of market risk (eg interest rate risk, currency risk, other price risk) it is exposed to, showing the impact on profit or loss and equity. Details of the methods and assumptions used should be provided. If a financial institution prepares a sensitivity analysis, such as value-at-risk, that reflects interdependencies between risk variables (eg interest rates and exchange rates) and uses it to manage financial risks, it may use that sensitivity analysis instead. 57 Sub-paragraph (d) does not apply to financial institutions that have made the accounting policy choice in paragraphs 11.2(c) and 12.2(c) to apply the recognition and measurement provisions of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. Capital A financial institution shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the entity’s objectives, policies and processes for managing capital. A financial institution shall disclose the following: Qualitative information about its objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, including: a description of what it manages as capital; when an entity is subject to externally imposed capital requirements, the nature of those requirements and how those requirements are incorporated into the management of capital; and how it is meeting its objectives for managing capital. Summary quantitative data about what it manages as capital. Some entities regard some financial liabilities (eg some forms of subordinated debt) as part of capital. Other entities regard capital as excluding some components of equity (eg components arising from cash flow hedges). Any changes in (a) and (b) from the previous period. Whether during