restating the opening balances of assets, liabilities and equity for the earliest prior period presented. When it is impracticable to determine the period-specific effects of a material error on comparative information for one or more prior periods presented, the micro-entity shall restate the opening balances of assets, liabilities and equity for the earliest period for which retrospective restatement is practicable (which may be the current period). Section 9 Financial Instruments Scope of this section This section sets out the requirements for the recognition, derecognition, measurement and disclosure of financial instruments (financial assets and financial liabilities). All financial instruments are accounted for in accordance with this section, unless they are excluded by paragraph 9.3. Examples of financial instruments in the scope of this section include: cash; accounts receivable and payable (trade debtors and creditors); commercial paper and commercial bills held; demand and fixed-term deposits with banks or similar institutions; bonds, loans and similar instruments; investments; derivatives, eg options, warrants, futures contracts, forward contracts and interest rate swaps. This section does not apply to the following financial instruments: Financial instruments that meet the definition of a micro-entity’s own equity, and the equity component of compound financial instruments issued by the reporting micro-entity that contain both a liability and an equity component (see Section 17 Liabilities and Equity). Leases, to which Section 15 Leases applies. However, the derecognition requirements in paragraphs 9.21 to 9.23 and impairment accounting requirements in paragraphs 9.16 to 9.19 apply to derecognition and impairment of receivables recognised by a lessor and the derecognition requirements in paragraphs 9.25 and 9.26 apply to payables recognised by a lessee arising under a finance lease. Employers’ rights and obligations under employee benefit plans, to which Section 23 Employee Benefits applies. Financial instruments, contracts and obligations to which Section 21 Share-based Payment applies. Reimbursement