loses control of all or part of the recognised asset; and for a liability, derecognition normally occurs when the entity no longer has a present obligation for all or part of the recognised liability. Accounting requirements for derecognition aim to faithfully represent both any assets and liabilities retained after the transaction or other event that led to derecognition and the change in assets or liabilities as a result of that transaction or other event. The aim of paragraph 2.63 is normally achieved by: derecognising any assets or liabilities (components) that have expired or have been consumed, collected, fulfilled or transferred (collectively, the transferred components), and recognising, and presenting separately in the statement of financial performance, any resulting income and expenses; continuing to recognise, and presenting separately in the statement of financial position, any retained assets or liabilities (the retained component); and providing explanatory information. Measurement Elements recognised in financial statements are quantified in monetary terms. This requires the selection of a measurement basis. A measurement basis is an identified feature – for example, historical cost, fair value or fulfilment value – of an item being measured. Applying a measurement basis to an asset or liability creates a measure for that asset or liability and for related income and expenses. Different measurement bases may be appropriate for different assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Measurement bases Historical cost Historical cost measures provide monetary information about the assets, liabilities and related income and expenses, using information derived, at least in part, from the price of the transaction or other event that gave rise to them. The historical cost of an asset when it is acquired or created is the value of the costs incurred in acquiring or creating the asset, comprising the consideration paid to acquire or create the asset plus transaction costs.