102 and the FRC seeks an overall IFRS-based solution, when relevant, rather than simply maintaining consistency with the IFRS for SMEs Accounting Standard. 79 An organisation which may be referred to in the lease, which is responsible for the provision of services, and manages and arranges maintenance of the property, but which does not necessarily have any legal interest in the property. Have the new standards delivered benefits? In their feedback, a number of stakeholders highlighted some of the benefits of FRS 102. These included simpler financial statements, time-savings in preparation, greater consistency with IFRS Accounting Standards, increased transparency and an easily readable standard.80 Stakeholders also identified areas for possible further improvement that were considered as part of the Triennial Review 2017. The FRC continued to believe that the new UK and Ireland accounting standards have addressed the concerns that led to their development by providing a consistent IFRS-based framework, for example by improving recognition and disclosure of financial instruments. Although the Triennial Review 2017 was primarily about FRS 102, the FRC considered whether the suite of UK and Ireland accounting standards, as a whole, had delivered benefits. FRS 101 is an optional standard (entities applying it could alternatively have applied FRS 102 or EU-adopted IFRS). Feedback to the annual reviews of FRS 101 suggested that this standard is being applied in practice, suggesting this is a cost-effective option for some entities. FRS 101 will continue to be subject to an annual review to provide additional disclosure exemptions as IFRS Accounting Standards evolve and to respond to stakeholder feedback about other possible improvements. For example, FRS 101 was made more cost-effective by the removal of the requirement to notify shareholders prior to taking advantage of the disclosure exemptions. FRS 102 is considerably shorter than the accounting standards that preceded it,