B1.1 Users need additional information about entities that are listed but not on a regulated market, namely earnings per share and operating segments. These areas were not addressed in the IFRS for SMEs Accounting Standard and therefore accounting requirements were set in this section by cross-reference to the relevant adopted IFRS to ensure that the standard remained succinct. Reduced disclosures B1.2 As part of the implementation of the EU Accounting Directive in July 2015 it was clarified in paragraph 1.12(c) that, because company law requires certain disclosures relating to financial instruments, a qualifying entity choosing to provide reduced disclosures will not be exempt from all the disclosure requirements of Sections 11 and 12. This was previously addressed in paragraph A4.10, which notes that preparers need to have regard to the requirements of company law in addition to accounting standards. Notification of shareholders B1.3 In December 2016, this section and FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework were amended to remove the requirement to notify shareholders of the intention to take advantage of reduced disclosures. B1.4 Complying with this requirement was considered no longer cost-effective in practice and sufficient information will continue to exist for minority shareholders to understand the effects of the reduced disclosure framework. B1.5 In removing the requirement, it was noted that: The overall level of disclosure required is not less than that required by previous UK accounting standards, taking into account exemptions that were available for subsidiaries. The shareholders in an ultimate parent entity will receive the consolidated financial statements of the group as well as the parent entity’s individual financial statements. These consolidated financial statements will include full disclosure in accordance with the relevant accounting framework. Notifying all shareholders of an ultimate parent entity in writing could lead to a significant cost being incurred. A shareholder that controls