the period it complied with any externally imposed capital requirements to which it is subject. When the entity has not complied with such externally imposed capital requirements, the consequences of such non-compliance. A financial institution bases these disclosures on the information provided internally to key management personnel. A financial institution may manage capital in a number of ways and be subject to a number of different capital requirements. For example, a conglomerate may include entities that undertake insurance activities and banking activities and those entities may operate in several jurisdictions. When an aggregate disclosure of capital requirements and how capital is managed would not provide useful information or would distort a financial statement user’s understanding of the financial institution’s capital resources, the financial institution shall disclose separate information for each capital requirement to which the entity is subject. Reporting cash flows on a net basis A financial institution that presents a statement of cash flows in accordance with Section 7 Statement of Cash Flows may report cash flows arising from each of the following activities on a net basis: cash receipts and payments for the acceptance and repayment of deposits with a fixed maturity date; the placement of deposits with and withdrawal of deposits from other financial institutions; and cash advances and loans made to customers and the repayment of those advances and loans. This paragraph does not impose a requirement to produce a cash flow statement. Retirement Benefit Plans: Financial Statements An entity applying this FRS that is a retirement benefit plan shall also apply the requirements of paragraphs 34.35 to 34.48. A retirement benefit plan may be a defined benefit plan, a defined contribution plan, or have both defined benefit and defined contribution elements. The financial statements shall distinguish between defined benefit and defined contribution elements, where material.