the Companies Act 2014 in respect of acquisitions or disposals of own shares. (Section 325(1A)(b) of the Companies Act 2014) Section 7 Subsidiaries, Associates, Jointly Controlled Entities and Intermediate Payment Arrangements Scope of this section This section applies to investments in subsidiaries and associates, interests in jointly controlled entities and intermediate payment arrangements. Investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in jointly controlled entities A micro-entity shall account for any investments in subsidiaries and associates and any interests in jointly controlled entities in accordance with Section 9 Financial Instruments. Consolidated financial statements An entity that is required or chooses to present consolidated financial statements is excluded from the micro-entities regime (sections 384A(8) and 384B(2) of the Act17) and shall not apply this FRS. Intermediate payment arrangements (eg ESOPs) Intermediate payment arrangements may take a variety of forms: The intermediary is usually established by the micro-entity and constituted as a trust, although other arrangements are possible. The relationship between the micro-entity and the intermediary may take different forms. For example, when the intermediary is constituted as a trust, the micro-entity will not have a right to direct the intermediary’s activities. However, in these and other cases the micro-entity may give advice to the intermediary or may be relied on by the intermediary to provide the information it needs to carry out its activities. Sometimes, the way the intermediary has been set up gives it little discretion in the broad nature of its activities. The arrangements are most commonly used to pay employees, although they are sometimes used to compensate suppliers of goods and services other than employee services. Sometimes the micro-entity’s employees and other suppliers are not the only beneficiaries of the arrangement. Other beneficiaries may include past employees and their dependants, and the intermediary may be entitled to make charitable donations.