offer guidance under each Principle. This guidance is provided to assist companies in explaining their approach to applying each Principle appropriate to their circumstances. Accordingly, the guidance does not need to be reported on in the same way as premium listed companies need to ‘comply or explain’ against Provisions in the UK Corporate Governance Code. By providing broad Principles with supporting Guidance, the intention of the Wates Principles is to move beyond a ‘tick box’ approach to describing and explaining how the implemented practices achieve the Principles and demonstrate the outcomes. This approach offers increased transparency for stakeholders and links to the other reporting requirements set out above. Companies should provide a supporting statement that gives an understanding of how their corporate governance policies and processes operate to achieve the desired outcome for each Principle. Where appropriate the statement may cross-refer to information reported under other legislation, for example, information which may be in the Strategic Report or another company document. Additional Information The importance of stakeholder engagement is demonstrated throughout the Wates Principles and companies should outline methods of engagement with both the workforce and other stakeholders and demonstrate how boards have considered the issues raised. Subsidiary companies meeting the tests set out in the Regulations are required to make a corporate governance statement. Directors of these companies are subject to section 172 like any other director, but it is recognised that parent companies may in some cases influence policies. For example, remuneration practices and policies may be set by the board of the parent company. In such cases, any explanation that demonstrates application of the Principles could refer to the parent company’s corporate governance statement, if that report explains the governance procedures of the subsidiary. Many companies which are required to make a corporate governance statement under the