assessments, and internal reviews of audit work are valuable inputs. Using scenarios to test skills and auditor behaviours, including a willingness to challenge, makes interviews more effective. Collecting 360-feedback on attainment of desired auditor behaviours, drives a focus on audit quality. Where the rationale for promotion decisions is transparent it helps embed the firm’s desired audit behaviours. Reward and recognition processes can also promote a culture of continual improvement by rewarding behaviours that contribute to continual improvement, for example learning from mistakes, proactively improving skills, sharing challenging experiences with others, and contributing to or starting initiatives to prevent issues from recurring. Good practice – reward & recognition| “One firm runs annual 360-feedback for all audit managers and above, with anonymous feedback on the firm’s values, including integrity, quality, and coaching. Feedback reports are then used in appraisal and promotion processes.” “One firm uses audit quality self-assessments that require commentary on quality metrics and behaviours of challenge and integrity.” “Many firms use a combination of reward mechanisms to reward auditors behaviour, including bonuses linked to quality metrics, quarterly awards for exceptional behaviours, collegiate nominations for ad-hoc small bonuses, and non-financial recognition”. “One firm uses robust technical promotion interviews with required technical and ethical scenarios. Another firm has introduced external technical assessments for manager and senior manager promotions.” “One firm mandates a manager assessment centre for promotion, in audit with a simulated file review, technical scenarios, tests on risk management, accounting and auditing and technical presentations.”| Working Environment The working relationships within an audit team set the behavioural foundation for auditors to challenge management during an audit. An effective working environment in an audit team is one where auditors feel comfortable sharing concerns and asking challenging questions without the risk of repercussion or embarrassment. It is important to create a work environment