to reflect on how they can and do achieve these. Timely in-audit verbal as well as written feedback, focused on key behaviours and outcomes, shows individuals how their performance compares to desired auditor behaviours and using feedback in appraisals shows that it is valued. Requesting feedback for all significant pieces of work and encouraging honest upwards feedback to senior auditors and partners also increases accountability. Differentiating between individuals, using performance and quality ratings or detailed appraisal discussions, based on achievement of audit quality and desired behaviours, motivates individual achievement. Remuneration is an effective tool for increasing scepticism and challenge when it is clearly based on audit quality and desired behaviours, reflecting positive and negative performance, and where the impact of audit quality is significant compared to other contributors to reward. Making bonuses and pay rises contingent on a minimum standard of audit quality also shows that good performance in other areas is not enough. Rewarding the positive is more motivating than solely punishing the negative. In-year financial and non-financial rewards can also effectively motivate and increase awareness of desired audit behaviours. Ad-hoc schemes, where auditors receive small rewards or formal praise for demonstrating desired behaviours encourage increased awareness of such behaviour, and a culture of continuous recognition and positive reinforcement. Structured schemes to nominate auditors or audit teams for awards call out examples of desired auditor behaviours and publicise role models. These schemes are most effective when they are clearly designed to reward audit quality and desired auditor behaviours rather than hours worked and where they encourage senior auditors to show appreciation for audit quality and desired auditor behaviours. Promotions drive pay progression, show who is valued, impact who remains within the firm, and should align with the firm’s desired auditor behaviours and quality outcomes. Feedback, quality metrics, interviews, technical