year you should ask them to complete form P85 . They should send the completed P85 to HMRC who will consider if an NT (nil tax) code can be operated. This applies whether the employee Þles a Self Assessment tax return or not. The P85 should be sent to HMRC no earlier than 8 weeks before the date the overseas work is due to commence and be accompanied by a letter requesting the NT tax code. WeÕll tell you if you can operate code NT and the period for which it can apply. NT tax codes will also be issued where thereÕs ongoing National Insurance contributions liability only. If the employee ceases to be subject to tax and National Insurance contributions, they can be removed from your FPS until they return to the UK and deductions recommence. You should not operate an NT tax code before receiving formal notice from HMRC as this may result in you sending an incorrect FPS and you may incur penalties. The letter conÞrming that you can use code NT will explain that any income tax that the employee paid prior to leaving the UK cannot be repaid until after the end of the tax ye a r. As an alternative, for the year of leaving the UK, you can run 2 separate payroll records for the employee (each one operating cumulatively), one on the UK pay the employee was paid up to departure and the other for the earnings for work done abroad after departure. This will allow you to repay some of the UK tax that the employee paid prior to departure in each pay period until the end of the tax year. If you do decide to do this you should let HMRC know and separate payroll IDs will be necessary for each record. You can also operate a similar procedure for the tax year the employee returns to work in the UK but you must always tell HMRC that the employee has returned to work in the UK and you should immediately stop using code NT . Where an employee works both in the UK and overseas, it may be necessary to consider the guidance at 4.6.6 below. Overseas tax deductions If you send employees to work on an overseas contract, the overseas tax authorities may get in touch with you about making foreign tax deductions from the employeesÕ pay. ItÕs advisable therefore to contact the overseas authority on or before the start of the contract to establish your obligations in that country. This is because youÕre likely to have obligations to both UK and overseas tax authorities. Although foreign deductions may be due, you must explain to the overseas authority that youÕre still responsible for operating PAY E under UK arrangements for these employees. Find out if the foreign tax authority requires you to make deductions and as soon as you have conÞrmed this you should contact HMRC. WeÕll tell you what you can do to make things easier for the employee who will have two lots of deductions made from their pay but you must contact HMRC before the end of the tax year. 4.6.5 Employees working in o ! shore areas You must operate PAY E for employees working o " shore, but there are exceptions. Before employees start working in these areas, write to HMRC for more information. You can Þnd our address in the help and guidance section of this guide. 4.6.6 Employees who work both in the UK and overseas An employee is considered to be internationally mobile if they work, or are likely to 
