on motoring expenses payments, can be found within Tax and National Insurance contributions for employee travel: 490 . 5.4.2 Taxation of mileage expenses payments Read paragraph Ô5.4.1 National Insurance contributions on motoring expenses paymentsÕ for the National Insurance contributions treatment of motoring expenses payments and passenger payments. You can pay up to an Ôapproved amountÕ tax-free to employees using their own vehicles for business travel. This is calculated as follows: Kind of vehicle Rate Car or van 45 pence per mile for the Þrst 10,000 business miles 25 pence per mile after that Mo t o rc y c l e 24 pence per business mile Cycle 20 pence per business mile There are 2 main conditions for payments to be free of tax. They: must be paid to the employee (not merely for the beneÞt of the employee) for the expenses of business travel in the employeeÕs privately owned car, van, motorcycle or cycle must not exceed the number of business miles multiplied by the appropriate mileage rate Payments that meet these 2 tests are known as approved mileage allowance payments. If you do not pay more than the approved amount, all payments are tax-free approved mileage allowance payments. You do not need to include them on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers . If you pay more than the approved amount, the excess will be charged to tax and you should include it on form P11D only where you have been unable to tax this under PAY E . Excess mileage payments can no longer be included in PAY E settlement agreements. Meaning of business travel This is explained in Tax and National Insurance contributions for employee travel: 490 . Associated employments Where an employee gets motoring expenses payments from 2 or more associated employments, aggregate the mileage to work out when 10,000 business miles is reached. Record keeping Even if you pay amounts that are at or below the approved mileage allowance payments limit and so are not taxable, youÕll still need to keep records of the payments made and the business journeys to which they relate. Passenger payments ThereÕs an additional exemption from tax for Ôpassenger paymentsÕ. These are payments you make to employees travelling on business journeys speciÞcally because they carry as passengers fellow employees for whom the journeys are also business travel. The exempt amount is 5 pence per mile per fellow employee travelling as a business passenger. The exemption applies only where the vehicle used is a car or a van, but is not restricted to employeesÕ privately owned vehicles. It can also apply where the vehicle used is a company car or van, provided the employee is chargeable to tax on car or van beneÞt. Exempt passenger payments do not need to be included on P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers form, but any excess should be taxed through the payroll but you should keep adequate records to demonstrate that payments made satisfy the conditions for exemption. 5.5 Treatment of expenses payments for National Insurance contributions purposes If you pay an employee expenses, you must include them in gross pay unless theyÕre exempted from charge under a speciÞc exemption, read paragraph Ô5.3.1 Exemption for paid or reimbursed expensesÕ . If you pay an employee expenses for using a privately owned vehicle for business purposes, there are special rules for working out whether you need to include these payments in gross pay, read paragraph Ô5.4.1 National Insurance contributions on motoring expenses paymentsÕ . Evidence To prove that theyÕre expenses actually incurred by employees in carrying out their work you must