scheme, and: in the past, the employee has been charged to tax on the employer contributions which funded the lump sum and no employer contributions have been made since 5 April 2006 itÕs a payment on death which happened as a result of an accident whilst the person was an employee (including accidents outside work) itÕs for ill-health or disablement during service These exclusions do not apply where the lump sum payment is made from an overseas employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞts scheme to a person whoÕs resident in the UK. Where a lump sum retirement or death payment is not tax-free and itÕs paid to any person or body other than an individual (for example, to a club or society) the payer is charged to tax at 45% and PAY E does not apply. Where payment is made from rights which accrued before 6 April 2017 in respect of service outside the UK, in certain circumstances all or part of the lump sum will not be chargeable to tax. Read the guidance in the Employment Income Manual for more information on when this will apply. 5.11.4 Foreign service A payment which is Ôtaxable on amounts over £30,000Õ may qualify for an additional Income Tax relief. This relief applies if, during the employment, there was Ôforeign serviceÕ or Ôforeign seafaring serviceÕ. Broadly, this means that the employee was not ÔresidentÕ in the UK at some time during the employment. If you think this relief may apply, you may wish to speak to HMRC before taking account of any relief. Tax relief for Ôforeign serviceÕ is only available if the employee is non-UK ÔresidentÕ for the tax year in which their employment is terminated, or if the employment included qualifying Ôforeign seafaring serviceÕ and they were ÔresidentÕ in the UK for the tax year in which the employment is terminated. With e " ect from 6 April 2021 non-UK ÔResidentÕ employees are now also liable for UK tax and National Insurance contributions on Post-Employment Notice Pay (PENP), to the extent they would have been had their period of notice been worked in the UK. Guidance is available in the Employment Income Manual. You may wish to speak to HMRC when considering whether relief is available. 5.12 Employment Tribunal Awards An employment tribunal (in Northern Ireland, an industrial tribunal) may require you to make payments to an employee under: a reinstatement order or a re-engagement order an order for the continuation of employment a protective award Payments due under such awards count as gross pay for both National Insurance contributions and PAY E purposes. You must calculate Class 1 National Insurance contributions on the full amount of the award and PAY E if the total exceeds £30,000. ThatÕs on the amount awarded before any deductions ordered by the tribunal. If you do not know the full amount of an award, contact the clerk to the tribunal that made the award. If the actual amount you have to pay the employee is less than the amount of National Insurance contributions and PAY E tax due on the full amount of the award, read paragraph Ô1.19.1 Deliberate under deductions of National Insurance contributions and PAY E Õ . This gives guidance about recovering underpayments of National Insurance contributions and PAY E tax from an employee. 5.12.1 Reinstatement order or re-engagement order If a tribunal decides that an employee was unfairly dismissed, it may order the employer to pay notional Ôarrears of payÕ to the employee relating to a period when the employment did not exist. Such amounts count as gross pay for National Insurance employment did