are receiving, any tax deductible should be reduced by any tax refund that youÕre already withholding from the employee, remember, however, to reduce the amount of refund owed to the employee by the amount used by the set-o " 2.9.4 Payments to the accounts o " ce during the trade dispute During a trade dispute the procedures that apply in relation to the payments you make to the accounts o ! ce are as follows: payments you have made to the accounts o ! ce for any tax month (or quarter where appropriate) ended before the trade dispute started, are not a " ected by the trade dispute you must continue to make your monthly (or quarterly) payments to the accounts o ! ce during the trade dispute if youÕre owed money because you made tax refunds before the dispute started but did not make a claim to the accounts o ! ce, you may deduct what youÕre owed from any amount youÕre due to pay to the accounts o ! ce during the trade dispute If you have put o " working out the tax refunds due to your employees, youÕll need to do your calculations at the earlier of: the end of the dispute when you complete your Þnal submission for the tax year You can then deduct the refunds from the payments to the accounts o ! ce and claim what youÕre owed back from the accounts o ! ce, who will deal with the matter urgently. If you have chosen to continue as normal to work out the tax refunds due to your employees you should observe the following procedures when making your monthly (or quarterly) payments to the accounts o ! ce: you may deduct from your payments to the accounts o ! ce, any refunds you actually make to employees because theyÕre no longer involved in the trade dispute (remember, however, not to deduct from your accounts o ! ce payment any amount of withheld refund you have previously deducted under the procedure) you may deduct from your payment to the accounts o ! ce, but only for the month (or quarter if appropriate) in which the refund arises, any refunds calculated but withheld where the amount of withheld refunds exceeds the tax due for that month (or quarter) you may deduct the excess from any payment of National Insurance contributions due where the amount of withheld refunds exceeds the tax and National Insurance contributions due for that month (or quarter), the excess refunds cannot be deducted from any subsequent payment to the accounts o ! ce or be claimed back from the accounts o ! ce until the refunds have actually been made to the employees 2.9.5 Trade dispute ends in the same tax year it began If the trade dispute ends in the same tax year it began, take the following action: pay any refunds that you have withheld as soon as possible after the employees return to work follow the procedure at paragraph Ô2.9.7 Procedure for employees whose withheld refunds you cannot pay at the end of the trade disputeÕ for any employee whose withheld refund you cannot pay work out how much you owe to, or are owed by, the accounts o ! ce, remember to allow for any deductions from payments to the accounts o ! ce that you have already made where your calculations show that youÕre owed by the accounts o ! ce you can either: deduct the amount youÕre owed from future payments you make to the accounts o ! ce claim the money back from 
