procedures 4. Special types of employee 5. Pay, expenses and beneÞts Appendix 1 Ñ other useful forms and guidance issued by HMRC Help and guidance To work out the National Insurance contributions, use either the: appropriate weekly table exact percentage method When working out PAY E using tax tables A , if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for the tax week that includes the date of payment. If a payday is in week 53, use the table for week 1 again on a non-cumulative basis. If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for week 1 on each payday. Pay interval Ñ fortnightly You can use the HMRC tools and calculators for this interval. For the fortnightly pay interval the earnings period is 2 weekly. To work out the National Insurance contributions, use either the: appropriate weekly table exact percentage method If you use the tables: This will give you the amount of National Insurance contributions due. When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for week 2 for the Þrst payment after 5 April, even if the payment is made in the Þrst week of the tax year. Use the table for week 4 for the second payment and so on up to week 52. If the payment occurs any time between: 6 April and 19 April Ñ it should be reported on the FPS as week 2 20 April and 3 May Ñ it should be reported on the FPS as week 4 If thereÕs a 27th payday in the tax year use the table for week 2 again on a non- cumulative basis. If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the tables for week 2 on each payday. Pay interval Ñ 4 weekly You can use the HMRC tools and calculators for this interval. For the 4 weekly pay interval the earnings period is 4 weekly. To work out National Insurance contributions, use either the: appropriate weekly table exact percentage method If you use the tables: This will be the amount of National Insurance contributions due. When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for week 4 for the Þrst payment after 5 April, even if the payment is made in the Þrst, second or third week of the tax year. Use the table for week 8 for the second payment and so on up to week 52. If the payment occurs anytime from: 6 April to 5 May Ñ it should be reported on the FPS as week 4 6 May to 5 June Ñ it should be reported on the FPS as week 8 If thereÕs a 14th payday in the tax year, use the table for week 4 again on a non- cumulative basis. If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for week 4 on each payday. Pay interval Ñ monthly You can use the HMRC tools and calculators or the Basic PAYE Tools for this interval. For the monthly pay interval the earnings period is monthly. To work out National Insurance contributions, use either the appropriate monthly table or the exact percentage method to calculate National Insurance contributions. When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for the month that includes the date of 
