is the Þfth. Although this payment is in the same tax month as the monthly salary, treat it completely separately and work out National Insurance contributions on the payment using a weekly earnings period. For PAY E purposes Work out PAY E using the weekly table on the Þrst payment after the change if you have not already paid the employee in the month. If you have already paid the employee in the month of change, use the same monthly table for the rest of that month and then use the weekly table from the beginning of the next tax month. For PAY E contributions purposes use the same payroll record as before. 1.10 Change of pay interval to a longer interval If the interval between the payments of an employeeÕs earnings changes to a longer interval, for example, weekly paid to monthly paid, take the following action. For National Insurance contributions purposes Work out National Insurance contributions from the Þrst payment after the change based on the new earnings period. If you have already made a payment using the old shorter earnings period in the Þrst of the new longer periods, the payment you have made, and National Insurance contributions worked out on it, should be taken into account when working out National Insurance contributions for the new period as a whole. Work out PAY E using the appropriate monthly table on the Þrst payment after the change. For National Insurance contributions purposes use the same payroll record as before. Example A weekly paid employee changes to being monthly paid on 9 July and receives their last 2 payments on 29 June and 6 July. The new earnings period is a month and will coincide with the tax month which always starts on the sixth of every month. The Þrst monthly payday is 31 July. Work out National Insurance contributions due on the Þrst monthly pay taking into account the earnings and National Insurance contributions worked out on the payment made on 6 July. The total National Insurance contributions payable must not exceed that which would have been payable had the 2 payments been added together and monthly National Insurance contributions worked out on the total. Amend the payroll record. The weekly payment made on 29 June is not in the new earnings period and is not included in the calculation. Where, exceptionally, itÕs not practicable for you to aggregate the earnings in the Þrst new earnings period, calculate the National Insurance contributions due on payments made before and after the change separately, in the normal way. For more information, read running payroll . For PAY E purposes Work out PAY E using the appropriate monthly table on the Þrst payment after the change. For PAY E contributions purposes use the same payroll record as before. 1.11 EmployeesÕ payday changed but same pay interval kept Take the following action if you change your employeesÕ payday but keep the same pay interval. For example, you change from making monthly salary payments on the 15th of the month to the Þrst of the month. For PAY E purposes To Þnd out the correct tax week or month read paragraph Ô1.14 Standard payments made when, or after, an employee leavesÕ . If the month or week number in which youÕre making the payment follows on from the tax month or week of the previous payment, complete your payroll record and operate PAY E in the normal way. Your next FPS should reßect the payment and tax month is the same as the tax month or week of the previous payment. If it