stamps or credits from an unapproved scheme, these must be treated as pay at the time when theyÕre allocated to the employee Do not include in gross pay: the cost of holiday pay stamps or credits which are issued under a scheme approved by HMRC any holiday pay thatÕs paid under an approved scheme by the fund itself Ñ in these cases the fund will deduct tax on this at the basic rate and give the employee a CertiÞcate of Tax Deducted and make their own end of year return to HMRC For National Insurance contributions purposes Employment law instructs employers in the obligation of providing paid holidays to their employees, so each employer must calculate and pay their employee the payment due to them when taking holiday during the period of that employment. How to work out National Insurance contributions on holiday pay is described at paragraph Ô2.7.5 Working out National Insurance contributions on holiday payÕ . 2.7.2 Holiday pay from money set aside during the year For holiday pay made up of amounts voluntarily set aside from your employeesÕ pay during the year to be paid at a certain time. For example, Christmas or their annual holiday, for both PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes include the amount set aside in gross pay at the time it is set aside. 2.7.3 Holiday pay from a holiday credit scheme For holiday pay from a holiday credit scheme when money is set aside each payday to be paid in a lump sum when your employees take their holidays, for both PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes, include these amounts in gross pay: at the time theyÕre set aside if your employees have a right to be paid the money at any time when the payment is actually made if your employees can only have the money when they take their holiday In both cases, the Þgures must be included in their payroll record and sent to HMRC on your FPS when you report your payroll information. 2.7.4 Working out PAY E on holiday pay You should normally work out PAY E using the tax tables for the week in which the holiday pay is paid and record it on the employeeÕs payroll record. However, if the e " ect of the holiday pay is that the employee gets 2 or more weeksÕ pay in one week and no pay in the following weeks then you should account for PAY E tax in the following way. For employees with a cumulative tax code For employees with a cumulative tax code If your employeeÕs on a cumulative tax code, calculate and record the PAY E tax using the free pay for the last week in which no pay is received. For example, if an employee is on holiday in weeks 16 and 17 and the wages for those weeks are paid in week 15, together with the pay for week 15, PAY E tax should be calculated on the holiday pay using week 17. You must report the payment on the FPS in the week you make the payment. For the ÔNumber of earnings periods covered by the paymentÕ on your FPS , in this example, you would enter Ô3Õ. For employees with a week 1 or month 1 tax code Where PAY E is being worked out on a week 1 or month 1 basis, split the pay equally between the full weeks of the holiday and work out and record PAY E on each amount separately for each week. You should report the payment on an FPS in 
