messages to view the reasons for rejection. The Employment Allowance will cease being state aid from 6 April 2025. The Employment Allowance is o " set against payments of secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions until the full annual amount of allowance is used up or the tax year ends, whichever is soonest. Employment Allowance has more information, details of eligibility and how to claim the National Insurance contributions Employment Allowance. 3.9.4 Apprenticeship Levy Employers with an annual pay bill of over £3 million have to pay the apprenticeship levy. The levy is charged at a rate of 0.5% on your annual pay bill. The pay bill is deÞned as earnings on which Class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions are due. The pay bill also includes earnings below the ! ST , and even though these are liable to Class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions at a rate of 0% includes the earnings of: employees under the age of 21 apprentices under the age of 25 armed forces veterans employees working in a Freeport tax site employees working in an Investment Zone tax site Levy allowance You have an annual allowance of £15,000 to o " set against your levy liability. If youÕre a single employer, with more than one PAY E scheme, who is not connected to other employers by virtue of the connected companies or connected charities rules that apply to the levy, you can share the allowance between your PAY E schemes. If youÕre an employer connected to other employers, by virtue of the connected companies or the connected charities rules, you have one annual allowance of £15,000 available for all of the connected employers within your group. However, connected employers can choose to share the £15,000 annual allowance between them. You do not need to apply for the allowance, you simply o " set one-twelfth of your annual allowance against your levy liability arising each month and this should be applied on a cumulative basis. Read the following examples. If you start up, or go into liquidation, during the tax year, youÕll still be able to use the full £15,000 allowance to o " set against your levy liability for the portion of the tax year in which you operated. Determining whether youÕre connected to another company or charity The rules on connection are the same as those used for the Employment Allowance. For guidance on how to determine if youÕre connected to another company, read the guidance on connected companies and claiming Employment Allowance in Employment Allowance: further guidance for employers and their agents . For guidance on how to determine if youÕre connected to another charity, read the guidance on connected charities within Employment Allowance: further guidance for employers and their agents . There are no connected rules for public bodies. Reporting your levy liability As an employer, youÕll pay Apprenticeship Levy each month if you: have an annual pay bill of more than £3 million are connected to other companies or charities which in total have an annual pay bill of more than £3 million You must report the levy monthly, on the EPS . You must send the EPS to HMRC within 14 days after the end of each tax month. If you run more than one payroll under the same PAY E employer reference, make sure you report the total year to date Þgures for all payrolls operated under the employer scheme. Paying the levy You must pay the levy each month to HMRC, at the same time youÕre due to pay tax and any earnings-related National Insurance contributions, which is 
