a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for week 4 on each payday. Pay interval Ñ monthly You can use the HMRC tools and calculators or the Basic PAYE Tools for this interval. For the monthly pay interval the earnings period is monthly. To work out National Insurance contributions, use either the appropriate monthly table or the exact percentage method to calculate National Insurance contributions. When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for the month that includes the date of payment. If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for month 1 on each payday. Pay interval Ñ quarterly You can use the Basic PAYE Tools for this interval. For the quarterly pay interval the earnings period is quarterly. To work out National Insurance contributions, use either the: appropriate monthly table exact percentage method If you use the tables: This is the amount of National Insurance contributions due. When working out PAY E using Tax Tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for month 3 for the Þrst payment after 5 April, even if the payment is made in an earlier month. Use the table for month 6 for the second payment and so on up to month 12. If the payment occurs anytime from: 6 April to 5 July Ñ it should be reported on the FPS as month 3 6 July to 5 October Ñ it should be reported on the FPS as month 6 If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for month 3 on each payday. Pay interval Ñ half-yearly You can use the Basic PAYE Tools for this interval. For the half-yearly pay interval the earnings period is half-yearly. To work out National Insurance contributions, use either the: appropriate monthly table exact percentage method If you use the tables: This is the amount of National Insurance contributions that are due. When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for month 6 for the Þrst payment made after 6 April and before 5 October, and the table for month 12 for the second payment. If the payment occurs any time between: 6 April and 5 October Ñ it should be reported on the FPS as month 6 6 October and 5 April Ñ it should be reported on the FPS as month 12 If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for month 6 on each payday. Pay interval Ñ annually For the annually pay interval the earnings period is annually. To work out National Insurance contributions, use either the: appropriate monthly table exact percentage method If you use the tables: This is the amount of National Insurance contributions that are due. When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for month 12. If the payment is made any time between 6 April and 5 April it should be reported on the FPS as month 12. If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for month 12. Pay interval Ñ less than a week You can use the Basic PAYE Tools for this interval. For pay intervals of less than a week the earnings period is one week. To work 
