and posting it to HMRC An election can be made at any time before the beginning of the tax month immediately before the month in which the election is due to start. For example, an election received in May 2024 to start from June 2024. Making the election means each employer PAY E reference will be treated separately for all PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes, with separate payroll records needed for each one. Where you have an election: you must take into account the total Class 1 National Insurance contributions for all your schemes when working out whether reimbursement for small employers is appropriate for SMP , SA P , SPP , SSP , SPBP and SNCP if youÕre eligible to claim Employment Allowance , you can only claim the allowance against one particular PAY E scheme in a speciÞc year youÕre liable to pay Apprenticeship Levy each month if you have an annual pay bill of more than £3 million, or are connected to other companies or charities for Employment Allowance, which in total have an annual pay bill of more than £3 million If you want to make an election Þll in form PAY E : Employer Annual Return election (P350) . 1.22 End of year Þnal submission At the end of the tax year, submit your Þnal FPS and, or EPS for the pay period as normal. You must indicate on your last FPS or EPS for the year that itÕs your ÔÞnal submission for the tax yearÕ. You must do this even if you have not made any deductions of PAY E tax or National Insurance contributions from your employees in that pay period. Your Þnal submission is the last FPS or EPS you submit for the tax year, regardless of whether it relates to weekly or monthly payroll. If you run more than one payroll under the same PAY E employer reference, make sure you report the total year to date Þgures for all payrolls operated under the employer scheme. 1.22.1 No payments in Þnal pay period If you have not made a payment to any of your employeeÕs in the Þnal pay period for the tax year then youÕre not required to submit an FPS . Instead you must submit an EPS indicating the following: no payment for period Þnal submission for the tax year If youÕre a limited company and wish to claim for Construction Industry Scheme deductions su " ered, youÕll need to complete 2 EPS submissions. The Þrst should indicate ÔNo payment for periodÕ, and the second should indicate ÔFinal submission for the tax yearÕ and report ÔConstruction Industry Scheme deductions su " ered for the tax yearÕ. 1.22.2 Correcting a current or previous yearÕs payroll entry for real time information tax years If, during a tax year, you submit an FPS containing information that later needs correcting, you can make the correction upon your next regular FPS or by submitting an additional FPS before your next regular FPS is due. After the tax year has ended, the correction must be done by submitting a Þnal revised FPS . If you have reported incorrect information on an EPS , you must submit another EPS to report the correct total year to date Þgures for all recovered payments within that tax ye a r. For more information and guidance, read payroll: annual reporting and tasks . 2. Special procedures 2.1 Pension contributions All employers must now provide a workplace (occupational) pension scheme for their employees. The Pensions RegulatorÕs guidance on automatic enrolment for employers tells you what you need to