Þx problems with running payroll . If you discover the error before you submit your next FPS You can either: correct the error by using revised year-to-date Þgures on your next regular FPS Ñ this is often the easiest way to handle the correction show the adjustment by submitting an additional FPS for the pay period for the employees the error relates to how you report a correction may depend on the payroll software you use For PAY E purposes You should try to recover the underpaid tax by making extra deductions from any later earnings you pay that employee by the end of the tax year. You should do this by agreement with the employee. Where youÕre unable to recover the under deduction by the end of the tax year you can ask HMRC to make a direction that your employee should pay the PAY E tax. WeÕll issue a direction if an explanation is provided which demonstrates that reasonable care was taken to operate PAY E and that the under deduction was an error made in good faith. For more information and examples of errors, read Þx problems with running payroll . If youÕre still unsure and you need advice, contact the employer helpline . 1.18.2 Mistake discovered after the end of the tax year For National Insurance contributions purposes If you discover that youÕve not submitted an FPS or youÕve reported incorrect year to date Þgures (errors in FPS submitted in the previous tax year), you should submit an additional FPS with corrected year to date Þgures as at 5 April for the previous tax year. You can submit to corrections to the original FPS information for up to 6 years after you Þled your original FPS or EPS . Read Þx problems with running payroll . Where you discover that youÕve over-deducted National Insurance contributions by mistake for a tax year and you cannot amend this through RTI you can ask HMRC for a refund by writing to: HM Revenue and Customs PT Operations North East England BX 9 1 A N United Kingdom YouÕll need to include a full explanation of the over-deduction, with revised earnings and National Insurance contributions details, for each employee a " ected. You must also tell HMRC why you could not make the amendment through RTI . HMRC will refund any overpayment of primary National Insurance contributions direct to the employees. You must also tell any a " ected employee: by letter showing the amendment giving them a new P60 marked ÔReplacementÕ Sending amended information means that your original return was either incomplete or inaccurate and could mean that you may be charged a penalty. As a general rule, you as the employer have to pay any underpayment of National Insurance contributions arising from an error. Guidance on how you can recover under deducted primary National Insurance contributions from your employees is as at paragraph Ô1.18.1 Mistake in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted during the tax yearÕ. For PAY E purposes Where you discover that you have under deducted PAY E by mistake you can ask HMRC for a direction Ñ read the advice for ÔMistake in the amount of National Insurance for a direction Ñ read the advice for ÔMistake in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted during the tax yearÕ at paragraph Ô1.18.1 Mistake in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted during the tax yearÕ. 1.19 Overpayments or underpayments of salary or pension Unintentional overpayments If you unintentionally overpay wages or pension, the following guidance