payment taking account of the regulatory limit for the payment if necessary. For K codes complete the following steps: # . Enter the extra payment for the tax period in which you pay it. $ . The Ôadditional payÕ should be added and tax worked out on this payment, taking account of the regulatory limit for the payment if necessary. % . When you pay the employee their main pay do not add the Ôadditional payÕ for the week or month, add their main pay to the total taxable pay you used when the previous payment was made, work out the tax on this amount using tables B to D and complete your payroll record in the normal way. & . If the K code is being operated on a week 1 or month 1 basis the tax already deducted on the extra payment should be deducted from the tax due for the week or the month The regulatory limit ensuring employees have no more than 50% of their pay deducted applies to all tax codes. 1.13 Payments made in week 53 Where you pay an employee weekly: they will have 53 weekly paydays instead of the usual 52 the extra payday is called week 53 use Ô53Õ as the tax number when you make a Ôweek 53Õ payment to HMRC on an FPS Where you pay an employee fortnightly: they will have 27 fortnightly paydays instead of the usual 26 the extra payday is called week 54 use Ô54Õ as the tax number when you make a Ôweek 54Õ payment to HMRC on an FPS Where you pay an employee 4-weekly: they will have 14 paydays instead of the usual 13 the extra payday is called week 56 use Ô56Õ as the tax number when you make a Ôweek 56Õ payment to HMRC on an FPS Do not change the Þnal tax code to week 1 if the only reason you have used the week 1 table is to calculate a payment on week 53. 1.13.1 Week 53 and su " x codes For employees on a week 1 coding, simply treat the extra payday as another week 1 payment. For employees on a cumulative code, take the following action. If the total free pay to date at week 52 is: equal to or more than the total pay for the year (that is the week 52 total plus the extra payday amount) Ñ do not deduct any PAY E from the payment to the employee less than the total pay for the year Ñ work out how much PAY E to deduct by reference to the pay for week 53, 54 or 56 less the amount of pay adjustment (that is, free pay) shown in tax tables A Use tax tables A for: week 1 if the employee is weekly paid week 2 if the employee is fortnightly paid week 4 if the employee is 4-weekly paid 1.13.2 Week 53 and K codes Work out how much tax to deduct by reference to the pay for week 53, 54 or 56 plus the amount of pay adjustment (that is Ôadditional payÕ) shown in tax tables A using the table for: week 1 if the employee is weekly paid week 2 if the employee is fortnightly paid week 4 if the employee is 4-weekly paid If after following this guidance youÕre approached by an employee who has been advised by HMRC that they have underpaid PAY E , you should conÞrm to them that you have not made an error in your payroll and advise the employee to read: