payments on the 15th of the month to the Þrst of the month. For PAY E purposes To Þnd out the correct tax week or month read paragraph Ô1.14 Standard payments made when, or after, an employee leavesÕ . If the month or week number in which youÕre making the payment follows on from the tax month or week of the previous payment, complete your payroll record and operate PAY E in the normal way. Your next FPS should reßect the payment and tax month is the same as the tax month or week of the previous payment. If it is you should: treat the Þrst Ônew dateÕ payment as an extra payment for the month or week note that only one amount of free pay can be given in a pay period used when the Þrst payment was made complete your payroll record and operate PAY E in the normal way and send another FPS for paydays after the Þrst Ônew dateÕ payment For National Insurance contributions purposes Work out National Insurance contributions using the normal earnings period on each of the paydays. 1.12 Extra payments made on a separate payday from normal pay Where you make extra payments (such as overtime, commission, bonuses and so on) on a separate payday from other pay, take the following action. For National Insurance contributions purposes Treat extra payments as part of the total pay at the time theyÕre paid, no matter when they were earned. If you have paid an employee and then make another payment to them in the same earnings period, National Insurance contributions have to be worked out again on the total payment. Example An employee whoÕs normally paid on a Friday receives a payment of £300 on Thursday 3 November and National Insurance contributions have been worked out on that sum. On Friday 4 November the employee is paid a normal weekly wage of £300 making a total of £600 paid in that week. National Insurance contributions must be recalculated based on £600. If the FPS has already been sent on 3 November send another FPS on 4 November to report the revised data. For PAY E purposes ItÕs important to remember that only one amount of free pay can be given (or in a K code case one amount of additional pay can be added) in any pay period. If PAY E was operated in the normal way at the time any additional payment is made it could result in an employee receiving a tax refund and then (in e " ect) repaying that refund on the normal payday. To prevent this, there are special rules if you: normally pay an employee weekly or at longer regular intervals make an extra payment before the normal pay for the week, month or other pay period use the employeeÕs code on the cumulative basis For cumulative su ! x codes Ñ extra payment complete the following steps: # . Enter the extra payment for the tax period in which you pay it. $ . Calculate the tax using the tax tables for the tax period taking account of the regulatory limit if necessary. % . If thereÕs tax to be deducted, then deduct it from the payment. If thereÕs tax to be repaid do not repay it when you make the extra payment. The repayment should be added to the total tax due and used as your starting point when you next pay the employee. For cumulative su ! x codes Ñ main payment complete the following steps: # . Enter the main payment for the tax period 
