PT Operations North East England at the address given at paragraph Ô3.7.6 More informationÕ for advice. 3.9 National Insurance contributions Ñ employer reliefs from secondary contributions Employers are entitled to a 0% rate of secondary National Insurance contributions for certain employees. 3.9.1 National Insurance contributions Ñ abolition of secondary contributions for those under 21 years of age A 0% rate of secondary National Insurance contributions applies for those employees under the age of 21 up to the UST . ThereÕs no reduction in the rate of Class 1 secondary contributions above the UST . ItÕs important to remember that this rate of secondary contributions does not remove the role of the secondary contributor. Employers are still required to fulÞl any other obligations associated with paying earnings, for example, administering statutory payments. These changes do not alter any of the rules for calculating National Insurance other than by using the under 21 secondary rate where appropriate. Primary Class 1 contributions will remain unaltered. The following National Insurance category letters apply to support this rate of secondary National Insurance contributions. Category M Standard rate contributions for employees aged under 21. Category Z Deferred rate contributions for employees aged under 21. Category Y MarinersÕ standard rate contributions for employees under 21. Category P MarinersÕ deferred rate contributions for employees under 21. 3.9.2 National Insurance contributions Ñ abolition of secondary rate contributions for apprentices under 25 years of age A 0% rate of secondary National Insurance contributions applies for apprentices under the age of 25 up to the AU S T . ThereÕs no reduction in the rate of Class 1 secondary contributions above the AU S T . Apprentices must be following a government recognised apprenticeship in the UK (those which follow government arrangements and approved frameworks). They must also have a written agreement, specifying the government recognised apprentice framework and standard, with a start and expected completion date. The agreement between the training provider, apprentice and employer will be the evidence the employer needs to retain when applying the zero rate of secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions for an apprentice under 25. The following National Insurance category letters apply to support this rate of secondary National Insurance contributions. Category H Standard rate contributions for apprentices under 25. Category G MarinersÕ standard rate contributions for apprentices under 25. Other considerations ItÕs important to remember that this new rate of secondary contributions does not remove the role of the secondary contributor. Employers are still required to fulÞl any other obligations associated with paying earnings, for example, administering statutory payments. These changes do not alter any of the rules for calculating National Insurance other than by using the apprentice under 25 rate where appropriate. Primary Class 1 contributions will remain unaltered. If an employee is eligible for both the apprentice under 25 rate and the under 21 rate then you should operate the apprentice under 25 rate. 3.9.3 National Insurance contributions Ñ Employment Allowance The Employment Allowance is available for most businesses, charities and Community Amateur Sports Clubs to be o " set against their employer Class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions. Businesses, charities, certain individuals who employ care and support workers and Community Amateur Sports Clubs may claim the Employment Allowance if the earnings they pay give rise to a secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions liability. For claims between 6 April 2020 and 5 April 2025 the Employment Allowance was not available to employers who had qualifying Class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions liabilities of £100,000 or more in the previous tax year. This will cease from 6 April 2025 onwards. Re 
