later earnings period when calculating the National Insurance contributions due, even on the rare occasions when such payments are notiÞed late and the most convenient earnings period falls within the next tax year. But the marginal item of pay must be included in the gross pay for the purposes of calculating National Insurance contributions without any undue delay. Marginal items of pay included in a later earnings period do not have to be reported to HMRC when paid. They should be reported when theyÕre included in the later earnings period. You must allocate marginal items of pay to the correct earnings period and recalculate the National Insurance contributions where the deferred calculation may have a material e " ect on an individualÕs beneÞt entitlement. For example, where an employee earns around the lower earnings limit ( LEL ). Where it appears that youÕre deferring the calculation to avoid or reduce National Insurance contributions HMRC will also ask you to both: include the marginal item of pay in the correct earnings period recalculate the National Insurance contributions due where it appears that youÕre deferring the calculation to avoid or reduce National Insurance contributions If you must allocate the marginal item of pay to the correct earnings period and recalculate the National Insurance contributions, youÕll need to make sure that the year to date National Insurance information submitted on a FPS reßects the correct values. ÔMarginal items of payÕ do not include amounts paid, or treated as paid, by way of securities, for example, shares or share options. If an item of pay is not marginal and your payroll section does not Þnd out about the item in time to include it in the correct earnings period, the pay records must be adjusted to allocate the item to the correct earnings period. 1.4 National Insurance contributions Abolition of secondary National Insurance contributions for apprentices under the age of 21 For more information, read paragraph Ô3.9.1 National Insurance contributions Ñ abolition of secondary contributions for those under 21 years of ageÕ . Abolition of secondary National Insurance contributions for apprentices under the age of 25 For more information, read paragraph Ô3.9.2 National Insurance contributions Ñ abolition of secondary rate contributions for apprentices under 25 years of ageÕ . Zero rate of secondary contributions for employers of armed forces veterans For more information, read paragraph Ô3.9.6 National Insurance contributions Ñ zero rate of secondary contributions for employers of armed forces veteransÕ . Zero rate of secondary rate contributions for employees working in a Freeport tax site For more information, read paragraph Ô3.9.7 National Insurance contributions Ñ zero rate of secondary rate contributions for employees working in a Freeport special tax siteÕ . Zero rate of secondary rate contributions for employees working in an Investment Zone tax site For more information, read paragraph Ô3.9.8 National Insurance contributions Ñ zero rate of secondary rate contributions for employees working in an Investment Zone special tax siteÕ . 1.5 Employment allowance The Employment Allowance for certain employers may be o " set against employer Class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions. Eligible employers may claim the Employment Allowance if the earnings they pay give rise to secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions liability. Service companies have limited eligibility for Employment Allowance Ñ theyÕre not able to claim in respect of deemed payments of employment income. The Employment Allowance is restricted so that single director companies, where the director is the only employee paid above the Secondary Threshold ( ST ) were no longer eligible. YouÕll need to determine your eligibility. For more information, read Employment Allowance on details of