general rule is explained in the Employment Related Securities Manual . Tax advantaged schemes If the shares acquired from tax advantaged schemes do not satisfy the scheme rules for Income Tax relief, then PAY E and National Insurance contributions will be due if the shares are RCAs . If the shares are non-readily convertible assets then the Income Tax payable is to be included in the personÕs Self Assessment tax return. For more details about the tax rules that apply to tax advantaged share schemes, read Employee tax advantage share schemes user manual . Schedule 4 company share option plan ( CSOP ) A gain made from a Schedule 4 CS O P scheme exercised at least 3 years but not later than 10 years after the date it was granted, is generally exempt from PAY E and National Insurance contributions liability. If a Schedule 4 CS O P is assigned or released for cash or an RCA , then PAY E should be operated as for non-tax advantaged arrangements. No tax charge arises if the Schedule 4 CS O P scheme allows for options to be exercised when employment ceases within 3 years of the date the options are granted for one of the following reasons: injury disability redundancy retirement or a Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) regulations transfer ( TUPE ), or a transfer of the employing company out of the group in certain cash takeovers Where Income Tax liability is due PAY E and National Insurance contributions must be accounted for on any gain if the shares acquired are RCAs . Schedule 3 Save as you earn ( SAYE ) When a share option is exercised in accordance with the rules of a Schedule 3 SAY E scheme at least 3 years after the date on which it was granted, or within 6 months of leaving employment by reason of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or a TUPE transfer or a transfer of the employing company out of the group, then the gain is exempt from PAY E and National Insurance contributions liability. ThereÕs also no Income Tax charge in certain cash takeovers. If a taxable charge arises, any Income Tax payable is to be included in the employeeÕs Self Assessment tax return. Enterprise management incentives ThereÕs no Income Tax or National Insurance contributions liability on the grant of a qualifying enterprise management incentive option. Income Tax and National Insurance contributions liability may arise on the exercise of the incentive option if: the option price is less than market value of the shares when the option was granted the shares under option are free thereÕs a disqualifying event PAY E and National Insurance contributions liability must be accounted for on any gain if the shares acquired are RCAs . For more details about the tax rules that apply to enterprise investment options, read Employee tax advantage share schemes user manual . Schedule 2 share incentive plans Shares acquired by employees under a schedule 2 share incentive plan are generally exempt from PAY E and National Insurance contributions liability when awarded or withdrawn from the plan provided the shares have been held in the plan for 5 years. Shares withdrawn from the plan earlier than 5 years because the employment has ended due to injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, death or a TUPE transfer or a transfer of the employing company out of the group are not liable to Income Tax or National Insurance contributions. ThereÕs also no Income Tax charge in certain cash takeovers. Shares that are RCAs and held for a shorter period may be subject to