payment. For National Insurance contributions purposes, the deemed employment payment should be aggregated with any other earnings paid to the worker by the MSC . An MSC must pay the PAY E and National Insurance contributions in respect of the deemed employment payment to HMRC on a monthly basis. The normal end of year payment rules will apply to the PAY E and National Insurance contributions on deemed payments (thatÕs, the total PAY E and National Insurance contributions due for the year must be paid by 19 April). Where an MSC fails to pay the PAY E and National Insurance contributions, and the sum is irrecoverable from it, HMRC may transfer the debt to a number of third parties. The third parties include: the MSCs director or other o ! ce holder or an associate of the MSC the MSC provider, its directors or other o ! ce holders or associates a person who encouraged or was actively involved in the provision of the workerÕs services through the MSC For more information about the legislation, read understanding o " -payroll working (IR35) . 4.7.3 IR35 Ñ at the end of the tax year The normal end of year payment rules apply to the PAY E and National Insurance contributions on the deemed employment payment made under the IR35 Intermediaries Legislation. The calculation of the deemed employment payment should be reported on an FPS on or before 5 April. If the intermediary is not able to calculate the actual amount of the deemed employment payment and the PAY E and National Insurance contributions due for 2024 to 2025 by 5 April 2025, a payment on account of the estimated tax and National Insurance contributions due should be made by 19 April 2025 supported by a provisional calculation of the deemed payment reported on the Þnal FPS submitted on or before 5 April 2025. Where a provisional payment of tax and National Insurance contributions has been made because it was not possible to accurately calculate the deemed payment and deductions on time, any adjustments should be reported through an earlier year update submitted to HMRC after the end of the tax year between 20 April 2025 and on or before the following 31 January 2026. Where HMRC does not receive the earlier year update and balancing payment by the following 31 January 2026, the last FPS submitted will be considered to be the Þnal and correct details. Interest will be charged on late payments made after 19 April 2025 (when the payment was due), but no penalties will be charged for sending the Þnal earlier year update Þgures late if: the Þnal FPS was received on or before 5 April 2025 showing remuneration paid during the year, plus an amount on account of the provisional deemed employment payment, with tax and National Insurance contributions correctly calculated on that additional Þgure payment of tax and National Insurance contributions is made by 19 April 2025, including an amount paid on account of the provisional deemed employment payment an earlier year update is submitted notifying the correct Þnal amount for the deemed employment, and payment and the tax and National Insurance contributions due are sent to HMRC by 31 January 2026 any additional tax and National Insurance contributions due as a result of the earlier year update are paid by 31 January 2026 For more information, read Understanding o " -payroll working (IR35) . 4.7.4 O ! shore agencies and employment intermediaries Where thereÕs an employer based in the UK, that employer is responsible for operating PAY E and National Insurance contributions. Where a person