are made in a later tax year to the one in which the pension recipient died, refer to the following information. Before you have notiÞed HMRC of the date of leaving on the FPS : use the tax code for the new year that you would have used if the pensioner had still been alive Ñ record the payment details on the payroll record in the name of the deceased pensioner complete the FPS using the new tax code only showing payments made in the new tax year Ñ payments made in the earlier tax year will be recorded on the employeeÕs FPS for that year After you have notiÞed HMRC of the date of leaving on the FPS : use the code 0T on a week 1 or month 1 basis record the details on the payroll record in the name of the deceased pensioner set the ÔPayment after leavingÕ indicator on the FPS 1.16 Joint wages to spouses and civil partners Where you pay a joint wage to spouses or civil partners, you should: prepare separate payroll records for each spouse or civil partner divide the wage between them for both PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes ask HMRC to let you have individual tax codes 1.17 Change of gender Transgender people can legally change their recorded gender (this refers to the gender which a transgender person was registered with at birth) and beneÞt from any rights and responsibilities associated with their acquired gender. This refers to the gender which a transgender person presents to the world. ItÕs not the gender that they were registered with at birth. In order to gain legal recognition in their acquired gender, transgender people must apply to the Gender Recognition Panel. If their application is successful, the panel will grant a GRC which will allow the individual to get a new birth certiÞcate. No veriÞcation is needed to change an employeeÕs name, but where youÕre aware that an employee has changed gender (by providing you with a GRC or a new birth certiÞcate) you can update your records to show the employeeÕs acquired gender and the title by which they want to be known. If they provide you with a copy of their new birth certiÞcate, youÕll need to take a copy of the certiÞcate and update the employeeÕs gender and title on your records, if you have not already done so. You can then operate National Insurance contributions and PAY E to reßect the acquired gender. Do not review the National Insurance contributions and PAY E position of the employee until youÕre presented with a new birth certiÞcate or GRC . ItÕs only following the issue of the full GRC that the person can obtain a new birth certiÞcate and is accepted as having satisÞed the criteria for legal recognition in their acquired gender. For detailed guidance on how a change in gender may a " ect the operation of National Insurance contributions and PAY E , including a list of frequently asked questions, read what to do if an employee changes gender . 1.18 Mistake in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted For guidance about when and how to tell HMRC about correcting errors, read Þx problems with running payroll . 1.18.1 Mistake in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted during the tax year If, during the tax year, you discover that a mistake has been made in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted, take the following action, if: you have deducted too much National Insurance contributions 
