third parties (Ôthe Part 7A rulesÕ) apply. If the employer is providing something directly to the employee, and thereÕs no third party involved, then these rules will not apply. There are 3 exceptions to this general rule. The rules can apply: where the employer is acting as a trustee rather than as an employer as a result of steps taken by an employer when thereÕs an agreement that contributions will be paid to a relevant third person comprising an unregistered pension arrangement where the employee concerned is acting as a trustee instead of in their capacity as an employee or individual If thereÕs a third party, is it a group company If the employerÕs a company that belongs to a group of companies, the Part 7A rules will not apply to payments and other items provided to the employee by other companies in that group. This depends on 4 conditions. # . The employer and the company in question must both be members of the group of companies at the time the relevant step is taken. $ . The test about membership of the same group must be satisÞed. To decide whether both companies are members of the same group, you apply the rules for Corporation Tax on chargeable gains, read Capital Gains Manual . However, thereÕs one change. The chargeable gains test is a 75% test. But when you apply the test under the rules on employment income through third parties, you change Ô75%Õ to Ô51%Õ throughout. % . The group company must not be acting as a trustee. & . The step taken by the group company must not be part of a tax avoidance arrangement. In practice routine arrangements, where a group company provides employment related beneÞts or other parts of the normal pay package, will fall outside the scope of the Part 7A rules and will continue to be taxed as before. Similar rules apply if the employerÕs a limited liability partnership, which has a wholly- owned company that provides beneÞts or part of the pay package to employees of the limited liability partnership. What if a third party is involved in a transaction with your employees (Scope of Part 7A rules) A person who counts as a third party following the rules outlined is referred to as a Ôrelevant third personÕ. When a relevant third person provides something to your employees, then the Part 7A rules may apply. The Part 7A rules will only apply if all of the following conditions are satisÞed: thereÕs an arrangement that is potentially within the scope of the Part 7A rules in the Þrst place (an arrangement to provide your employee, or former or prospective employee, with rewards, recognition or loans in connection with the employment (or an arrangement which passes the close company gateway)) a relevant third person has taken a deÞned Ôrelevant stepÕ (not all transactions count as Ôrelevant stepsÕ under Part 7A, for example, normal temporary provision of use of an asset available thatÕs provided as an employment beneÞt, such as a company car, would not count as a relevant step) the step is connected with the arrangement in question However, you still need to work out if the transaction is speciÞcally excluded from the application of the rules. SpeciÞc exclusions from the Part 7A rules If an arrangement has met the tests for potentially coming within the scope of the Part 7A rules, that does not necessarily mean that it has given rise to Part 7A income. There are a number of speciÞc exclusions that cut down the scope of Part 7A considerably. Check carefully 
