from their pay and get tax relief on the donations they make. Employers who currently o " er the scheme say they Þnd it easy to run and valuable for promoting good employee and community relations. You can get tax relief for the costs of administering the scheme. Agencies usually recover their costs by making a deduction from the donations they handle but, if you choose to fund any of the agencyÕs costs, or match your employeesÕ donations, you can get relief for that as well. If you already o " er payroll giving, remember that employees are entitled only to tax relief, not relief from National Insurance contributions. When completing your payroll records you: deduct the amount of the authorised donation from the employeesÕ gross pay for PAY E purposes do not deduct the amount of the authorised donation from the employeeÕs gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes To Þnd out more you can: read about Payroll Giving deductions when running payroll phone or write to the Charities helpline 2.6 Incentive awards Employees may receive incentive awards from you the employer, or a third party. Awards may be made in: cash goods holidays prizes or vouchers exchangeable for them An example of a third party making an award is where in the course of a sales promotion, the manufacturer of the product gives awards to salespersons whose direct employer is actually selling the product in question. 2.6.1 Cash awards and awards made by voucher which can be exchanged for cash The following information sets out guidance for cash awards and awards made by voucher which can be exchanged for cash. Cash awards If you provide a cash award, the value of that award must be included in the employeeÕs gross pay and PAY E and National Insurance contributions worked out on it in the normal way. If a third party provides a cash award, the third party is responsible for deducting PAY E from the award and should seek advice on what to do from HMRC. The value of that award must also be reported to you to enable you to account for the National Insurance contributions due. Awards made by voucher which can be exchanged for cash If you, or a third party, award a cash voucher you, as the contractual employer must include the value of that cash voucher in the employeeÕs gross pay and work out PAY E and National Insurance contributions in the normal way. Recording and reporting for cash awards and vouchers exchangeable for cash Include the amount in the Þeld Ôpay subject to Class 1 National Insurance contributionsÕ on the employeeÕs payroll record and if itÕs cash, also include the amount in the Þeld Ôtaxable pay in this pay periodÕ. Then report these Þgures to HMRC by sending an FPS . 2.6.2 Non-cash awards and vouchers which cannot be exchanged for cash The following information sets out guidance for non-cash awards and vouchers which can not be exchanged for cash. For PAY E purposes If you provide the award you can: Þll in the gross value of the award on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers after the tax year end run payroll if you have registered to payroll beneÞts prior to 6 April for the tax year the award was provided account for the tax by entering into a: taxed award scheme (read paragraph Ô2.6.7 Taxed award schemesÕ ) the value of the award grossed at the basic intermediate (Scottish only) or higher rate of tax PAY E settlement agreement (read section Ô5. Pay, expenses and beneÞtsÕ ) to 
