of that aggregate amount should be calculated using an annual earnings period, irrespective of whether the worker is a director of the company in the tax year. Where the provisions of the Intermediaries Regulations apply to the worker from the beginning of the tax year, the worker will have an annual earnings period. Where a later start date applies the worker is prescribed a pro rata annual earnings period. Read CA44: National Insurance for company directors . For more information about the legislation: read Understanding o " -payroll working (IR35) phone the IR35 Helpline on: 0300 123 2326 4.7.2 Workers paid by a Managed Service Company ( MSC ) Separate legislation applies to income received from 6 April 2007 by workers providing their services through a MSC . An MSC is a form of intermediary company through which workers provide their services to end clients. In essence a scheme provider promotes the use of these companies and provides the structure to workers. The worker (although a shareholder) does not exercise control over the company. Where a worker provides their services through a managed service company, the existing rules which outline the boundary between employment and self-employment for tax and National Insurance contributions purposes do not apply. Payments or beneÞts received by the worker or an associate which are not already treated as earnings, and can reasonably be taken to be in respect of the services of the worker, are treated as employment income and earnings. For the purposes of the legislation, a company means a limited company, a limited liability partnership or a general partnership. The MSC is responsible for deducting PAY E and accounting for National Insurance contributions. The MSC must deduct PAY E and account for National Insurance contributions on payments of income to the worker during the year, in the normal way. On each occasion when the worker or their associate receives a payment or beneÞt from the managed service company which is not earnings from an employment, the managed service company must calculate the deemed employment payment in accordance with the legislation and operate PAY E and Class 1 National Insurance contributions on the deemed employment payment. Appropriate deductions will be allowed on account of the deemed employment payment when calculating proÞts chargeable to Corporation Tax or partnership proÞts. For guidance on calculating the deemed employment payment, read Employment Status Manual: ESM3535 Ñ Managed Service Companies ( MSC ) . Expenses When calculating the deemed employment payment, a deduction can be made for speciÞc allowable expenses. Expenses incurred in providing services at the clientÕs premises, for example, travel, subsistence or accommodation costs, are not allowable expenses. Payment of tax and National Insurance contributions on the deemed payment Section Ô1. General proceduresÕ of this guide explains how to work out PAY E and National Insurance contributions for various pay intervals. Where regular payments have been made to the director or employee in question throughout the tax year, the deemed payment should be treated as a week 53 payment. For National Insurance contributions purposes, the deemed employment payment should be aggregated with any other earnings paid to the worker by the MSC . An MSC must pay the PAY E and National Insurance contributions in respect of the deemed employment payment to HMRC on a monthly basis. The normal end of year payment rules will apply to the PAY E and National Insurance contributions on deemed payments (thatÕs, the total PAY E and National Insurance contributions due for the year must be paid by 19 April). Where an MSC fails to pay the PAY E and National Insurance