of their earnings are to be paid Ôfree of taxÕ, the Þgure to enter on your employeeÕs payroll record to calculate the PAY E and National Insurance contributions due is the total of both the: Ôtrue gross payÕ of the Ôfree of taxÕ element of the earnings actual gross pay of the part of the earnings that have not been paid free of tax To work out the Ôtrue gross payÕ of the Ôfree of taxÕ element, you should use the following formula: Ôfree of taxÕ element of pay + 100 Ö (100 Ð employeeÕs tax rate Þgure) (the tax rate Þgure depends on which tax table you use for the employee). If you use: table B English and Northern Irish Ñ the Þgure is 20 Ñ basic rate table D1 English and Northern Irish Ñ the Þgure is 40 Ñ higher rate table D2 English and Northern Irish Ñ the Þgure is 45 Ñ additional rate table B Scottish Ñ the Þgure is 19 Ñ Scottish starter rate table D1 Scottish Ñ the Þgure is 20 Ñ Scottish basic rate table D2 Scottish Ñ the Þgure is 21 Ñ Scottish intermediate rate table D3 Scottish Ñ the Þgure is 42 Ñ Scottish higher rate table D4 Scottish Ñ the Þgure is 45 Ñ Scottish additional rate table D5 Scottish Ñ the Þgure is 48 Ñ Scottish top rate table B Welsh Ñ the Þgure is 20 Ñ basic rate table D1 Welsh Ñ the Þgure is 40 Ñ higher rate table D2 Welsh Ñ the Þgure is 45 Ñ additional rate Example You enter into an agreement to pay an employee a wage of £150 and £15 Ôfree of taxÕ towards travelling expenses. The employee is a table B employee. The Þgure to use to calculate the PAY E and National Insurance contributions due is the total of the Ôtrue gross payÕ of the Ôfree of taxÕ element. £15 + 100 Ö (100 Ð 20) = £18.75 The actual gross pay not within the Ôfree of taxÕ agreement = £150.00 Þgure to be entered on your payroll records to calculate PAY E and National Insurance contributions £168.75 For more information, read paying employees cash in hand or guaranteed take home pay . 2.4.4 Part of an employeeÕs earnings paid Ôfree of tax and National Insurance contributionsÕ If you enter into an agreement with an employee that only part of their earnings are to be paid Ôfree of tax and National Insurance contributionsÕ, you should contact HMRC for advice on how to work out the amount of PAY E and National Insurance contributions due. 2.4.5 Agreement to pay an employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions You should contact HMRC if you decide to pay the employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions on their behalf. That is, you pay the employeeÕs contributions yourself then do not deduct them from the employeeÕs pay. 2.5 Payroll giving Payroll giving is a voluntary scheme that allows employees to give money to a charity direct from their pay and get tax relief on the donations they make. Employers who currently o " er the scheme say they Þnd it easy to run and valuable for promoting good employee and community relations. You can get tax relief for the costs of administering the scheme. Agencies usually recover their costs by making a deduction from the donations they handle but, if you choose to fund any of the agencyÕs costs, or match your employeesÕ donations, you can get relief for that as well. If you already o " er payroll giving, remember that employees are entitled only