deemed employment payment an earlier year update is submitted notifying the correct Þnal amount for the deemed employment, and payment and the tax and National Insurance contributions due are sent to HMRC by 31 January 2026 any additional tax and National Insurance contributions due as a result of the earlier year update are paid by 31 January 2026 For more information, read Understanding o " -payroll working (IR35) . 4.7.4 O ! shore agencies and employment intermediaries Where thereÕs an employer based in the UK, that employer is responsible for operating PAY E and National Insurance contributions. Where a person is employed by or engaged through a foreign employer with no presence or place of business in the UK, the responsibility for operating PAY E and National Insurance contributions is as follows: no UK agency in the contractual chain Ñ the end client a UK agency in the contractual chain Ñ the UK agency more than one UK agency in the contractual chain Ñ the UK agency that contracts with the end client Where a UK agency is involved in the supply of workers overseas and the worker is liable for Class 1 National Insurance contributions whilst working abroad, then the UK agency is responsible for operating PAY E and National Insurance contributions. A worker who would otherwise be self-employed is subject to Class 1 National Insurance contributions and PAY E when they work through an agency and: the worker personally provides services to another person (the client) thereÕs a contract between the client and an agency under or in consequence of which the services are provided or the client provides consideration for the services, and remuneration is receivable by the worker PAY E and National Insurance contributions in relation to workers employed on the UK Continental Shelf There are di " erent rules in relation to the UK Continental Shelf when thereÕs a foreign employer with no presence or place of business in the UK. For workers who are employed on the UK Continental Shelf, the person responsible for operating PAY E and National Insurance contributions is the: employer, if theyÕre present in the UK associated company, where the employer is not present in the UK but has an associated company in the UK oil Þeld licensee, (under Part 1 of the Petroleum Act 1998), where the employer is not present and does not have an associated presence in the UK Where the oil Þeld licensee is responsible as the secondary contributor, a certiÞcate system has been introduced. A foreign employer can apply to HMRC for a certiÞcate to discharge the oil Þeld licenseeÕs secondary contributor responsibilities. Where HMRC issues a certiÞcate, the foreign employer takes over the oil Þeld licenseeÕs secondary contributor responsibilities. This will allow oil Þeld licensees to continue dealing with foreign employers and agencies within the industry without exposing themselves to liabilities for tax and National Insurance contributions. 4.7.5 Employment intermediaries reporting requirements Employment intermediaries must send HMRC a return every 3 months containing details of all workers they place with clients where they do not operate PAY E on the payments. Read about what this means for an intermediary within employment intermediaries reporting requirements or phone the Employment Intermediaries Compliance Unit on: 03000 555995. 5. Pay, expenses and beneÞts 5.1 What to include as gross pay on your employeeÕs payroll record The list which follows tells you what to include as gross pay for PAY E and Class 1 National Insurance contributions purposes. It lists the main type of payments that can be made to employees. Some entries will refer you to more detailed 
