you hear from HMRC. If HMRC have not contacted you by 5 April, (or the employee retires so late in the tax year that the Þrst pension payment is made after 5 April), carry forward the existing tax code to the new tax year but use it on a cumulative basis. If youÕre paying the pension to a beneÞciary of a deceased employee, follow the procedures under ÔPension recipient does not give you form P45Õ in paragraph Ô2.2.4 Procedures for other pension and annuity payersÕ . Pension to be paid by the trustees of a pension fund If an employee retires and youÕre not going to be paying them a pension, you need to include the leaving details on the FPS when making their Þnal payment, as you would for any employee whoÕs leaving. If an employee dies If an employee dies, you must pay any Þnal payment due to the deceasedÕs personal representative, whoÕs usually the executor of their will. You should only show the deceasedÕs personal details on their last FPS , not those of their representative. ThereÕs no speciÞc date of death Þeld on the FPS , so you must provide a date of leaving on the last FPS for the deceased, which in this instance will be the employeeÕs date of death. ThereÕs no need for you to tell HMRC that your employee has died as weÕll receive notiÞcation of this from other government sources. You do not give the personal representative a form P45. 2.2.3 Procedures for employer of an employee starting to receive a pension whilst continuing to work for the same employer Pension to be paid by you as the employer If youÕre to pay a pension to an employee who continues in employment: do not treat the employee as leaving your employment set up a separate payroll record for the pension indicate ÔYesÕ in the occupational pension indicator Þeld on the Þrst and every payment of pension include the annual amount of the occupational pension with the Þrst pension payment, do not pro rata it from the start date include the tax code use a di " erent payroll ID for the pension payments on the FPS from that used for their employment income When you start to pay the pension, deduct tax using code 0T on a week 1 or month 1 basis until you hear from HMRC. Continue to use the same code as before on the employment income. 2.2.4 Procedures for other pension and annuity payers Most pensions and annuities from, or in respect of, a registered pension scheme are PAY E pension income. Where the pension or annuity is for a dependant, nominee or successor, they may be exempt from tax. Read paragraph Ô2.2.7 Death beneÞt payments relating to pension schemesÕ . Pension recipient gives you form P45 When a pension recipient gives you a form P45: set up a new payroll record for them include the date the pension started with the Þrst pension payment indicate ÔYesÕ in the occupational pension indicator Þeld on the Þrst and every payment of pension include the annual amount of the occupational pension with the Þrst pension payment, do not pro rata it from the start date include the tax code include the payroll ID, if you want to use one use the code from the P45 on a week 1 or month 1 basis until you hear from HMRC if HMRC have not contacted you by 5 April (or the Þrst pension payment is to be made after 5 April), carry forward the existing code to the new tax year