other organisation responsible for operating PAY E on the deemed payment, should make sure the ÔO " -Payroll Worker subject to reformÕ ßag is ticked on the RTI Full Payment Submission ( FPS ). The FPS is submitted periodically using the companyÕs third-party software product or by HMRCÕs Basic Pay As You Earn To o l ( BPT ). This will be for each instance of the individualÕs pay cycle going forward whilst the o " -payroll working rules apply. If a mistake is made with this ßag, and the ßag needs to be ticked or unticked, this should be done in a corrective FPS submission made for the same or subsequent pay period. From April 2021, large and medium-sized organisations became responsible for assessing the employment status of the contractors they engage to work for them. If the rules apply, the organisation that pays the individualÕs PSC will be responsible for deducting and paying the associated employment taxes and National Insurance contributions to HMRC. PSCs are not responsible for deducting student or postgraduate loan repayments for workers engaged through their own companies. The worker will account for student loan obligations in their own tax return. These rules are at Chapter 10, Part 2, Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act ( ITEPA ) 2003. However, the travel and subsistence rules will apply when a deemed employment payment: is payable under IR35 legislation would have been payable but for the fact that the worker received remuneration as employment income This is because the workplace will be classed as a permanent workplace and no relief on travel and subsistence will be available for home to work travel. 4.7.1 Workers paid by intermediaries which do not meet the deÞnition of managed service companies (IR35 rules) The intermediaries legislation at Chapter 8, Part 2, ITEPA 2003 (commonly referred to as ÔIR35Õ) applies to income earned from engagements (known as relevant engagements) where: a worker provides services to a client under a contract between the client and one or more intermediaries the worker is an o ! ce-holder of the client or, but for the presence of the intermediary, the income arising under the contract would have been treated as coming from an employment or an o ! ce held by the worker, as if the worker had contracted directly with the client The existing rules which outline the boundary between employment and self- employment for tax or National Insurance contributions purposes, continue to be used to determine whether an o ! ce or employment would have existed but for the use of an intermediary. For more information on how to decide whether someone is employed or self-employed, you can use HMRCÕs check employment status for tax tool. The IR35 legislation will apply where the intermediary is a company and the worker has: beneÞcial ownership of, or entitlement to acquire rights entitling them to receive, more than 5% of the ordinary share capital of the company possession of, or entitlement to acquire rights entitling them to receive more than 5% of any distribution made by the company received, or could have received, payments or beneÞts from the company which are not salary but could reasonably be taken to represent payment for the services they provide to clients rights which would entitle them to receive or acquire more than 5% of the assets available for distribution in the event of a close company being wound up The ÔIR35Õ rules do not apply where the worker is only entitled to receive income from the intermediary which is all taxed as PAY E income and liable to Class 
