the UK makes their employees available to you to work in your business, the law treats you as their employer. This most commonly arises where youÕre supplied with workers by a foreign agency or youÕre loaned employees from a foreign company linked to yours. YouÕll be liable for the payment of National Insurance contributions (both employee and employer) in respect of that person. YouÕll have to register with HMRC as an employer if you have not done so already. 4.6 Employees coming to or leaving the UK Ñ treatment for PAY E purposes 4.6.1 Liability to pay National Insurance contributions for employees going abroad For more information read about: National Insurance if you work abroad employees working abroad new employees coming to work from abroad National Insurance for workers from the UK working in the EU, Gibraltar, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland 4.6.2 ModiÞed National Insurance contributions schemes Ñ applying for simpliÞed reporting for employees coming to or leaving the UK Some employers can apply for simpliÞed reporting for employees coming to or leaving the UK. Read manuals PAYE82003 (EP appendix 7a) and PAYE82004 - PAY E operation: international employments: EP (appendix 7b) for more information. The arrangements allow certain employers to apply to pay National Insurance contributions and complete a FPS at the normal time using a best estimate of the earnings and beneÞts, and later submit a minor correction to the amount of Class 1 or Class 1A National Insurance contributions, without then attracting a penalty. The idea is to help businesses with internationally mobile workers, by giving them a little longer to identify and account for minor beneÞts and payments that were not paid from the UK payroll. Conditions apply. Read PAY E Manual 81500 Ñ PAY E operation: international employments for more information. 4.6.3 Employees coming from abroad Subject to certain exceptions PAY E must be operated in the usual way for all employees: working at a UK branch or o ! ce of any overseas employer who work under the day-to-day control and management of a business in the UK or the UK branch or o ! ce of an overseas employer (including directors) The branch or business in the UK which is using the services of an employee of an overseas employer, must operate PAY E as if it was the employer. This is the case regardless of whether the employee is paid by the UK branch or business, the overseas employer, or partly by both. ! If all or part of an employeeÕs income, including any beneÞts provided, is paid by the overseas employer, the UK branch or business must get together all details needed to operate PAY E and make returns on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers . Read Social security contributions for workers coming to the UK from the EEA or Switzerland for more information. Where an employee works both in the UK and overseas, it may be necessary to consider the guidance at 4.6.6 below. Employees on short-term business visits to the UK Ñ Treaty relief Where an employee is likely to qualify for protection from UK Income Tax under the Income from Employment Article of a Double Taxation Convention (Ôdependant personal servicesÕ in older conventions) it may be possible to relax the strict PAY E requirements that arise. Certain information will need to be provided and the criteria in the Income from Employment provision met. You should check the relevant Convention, but usually UK tax will not be paid if all of the following conditions are met: the employee is present in the UK for a