employee has worked for you. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No No 13. Pension Registered pension schemes. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No Ye s Employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞt schemes. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No, if the payment satisÞes certain conditions. Ye s Pension ßexibility, including UFPLS . Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No Include the 75% of the payment chargeable to PAY E . 25% is tax free and should not be included. For National Insurance contributions purposes If you make payment: when the employee leaves, work out National Insurance contributions based on the regular earnings period for the employment after the employee has left, work out National Insurance contributions based on a weekly earnings period unless itÕs a Þnal payment of salary or wage where the usual earnings period, category letter and rates and thresholds at the time of payment should be used Read the guidance within paragraph Ô1.14 Standard payments made when, or after, an employee leavesÕ . For PAY E purposes Where no tax is due (because the payment is not taxable or the payment is a Ôtaxable on amounts over £30,000Õ payment below this limit) do not include in gross pay on your employeeÕs payroll record. Where tax is due (because the payment is taxable in full or the payment is a Ôtaxable on amounts over £30,000Õ payment above this limit), and you make the payment to the employee: when or before the employee leaves, you should include the taxable amount: in gross pay on the employeeÕs payroll record and operate PAY E in the normal way on the FPS complete a form P45 to give to the employee after the employee leaves, you should: include the taxable amount in gross pay on the employeeÕs payroll record for the tax week or month number in which you make payment enter code 0T as the amended code on the employeeÕs payroll record include the details, set the ÔPayment after leavingÕ indicator and show the original date of leaving on the FPS when you make the Þnal payment operate PAY E by using code 0T (on a week 1 or month 1 basis) not issue another form P45 Ñ instead give the employee a letter showing the date of the payment, the gross amount, and the PAY E tax you have deducted, and conÞrmation that the payment is a post-leaving payment Guidance on reporting termination packages where amounts over £30,000 are taxable is given at paragraph Ô5.2.5 Reporting termination packages where amounts over £30,000 are taxableÕ . 5.11.3 Lump sum payments on retirement or death which are not from registered schemes A lump sum retirement or death payment will be tax-free if itÕs from an employer- Þnanced retirement beneÞts scheme, and: in the past, the employee has been charged to tax on the employer contributions which funded the lump sum and no employer contributions have been made since 5 April 2006 itÕs a payment on death which happened as a result of an accident whilst the person was an employee (including accidents outside work) itÕs for ill-health or disablement during service These exclusions do not apply where the lump sum payment is made from an overseas employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞts scheme to a person whoÕs resident in the UK. Where a lump sum retirement or death payment is not tax-free 
