must have seen proof that the employee has reached State Pension age. This can be a birth certiÞcate, passport or certiÞcate of exception, issued by DW P (Department for Communities (DfC) in Northern Ireland). You should keep a copy of the proof you have seen because if you stop deducting employeeÕs contributions without seeing proof, youÕre responsible for any underpayment. The employeeÕs birth certiÞcate or passport should be used as proof of age as HMRC no longer issues age exception certiÞcates. There will be very rare instances where an employee is reluctant to provide the employer with a birth certiÞcate as it may contain sensitive information that they do not wish to disclose. If this happens they should write to the National Insurance enquiries for individuals helpline advising the reason why they cannot use the birth certiÞcate. HMRC will investigate these and provide a letter conÞrming they have reached state pension age where this is the case. 3.8.1 CertiÞcates of age exception Your employee may give you a certiÞcate of age exception issued by DW P (Department for Communities (DfC) in Northern Ireland) instead of showing you their passport or birth certiÞcate. The certiÞcate shows a Ôvalid fromÕ date and is proof that the employee has reached State Pension age and will not be liable to pay any further employeeÕs contributions on any payment of earnings made on or after that date. You should keep the certiÞcate for as long as the employee works for you. 3.8.2 When to return a certiÞcate of age exception HMRC no longer issues certiÞcates of age exception, however in exceptional circumstances your employee can contact HMRC to obtain a letter conÞrming they have reached State Pension age. Always return a certiÞcate of age exception to your employee when their employment ends. If youÕre unable to return the certiÞcate direct to the employee, send it, with a note of explanation, to HMRC at the address given in paragraph Ô3.7.6 More informationÕ . 3.8.3 Adjusting National Insurance contributions If youÕre given proof of the date on which your employee reached State Pension age and that date has passed, youÕll need to reassess and adjust any National Insurance contributions wrongly paid. Overpayment of employeeÕs contributions If an overpayment has occurred in the current tax year as a result of employeeÕs contributions being wrongly deducted: refund the employeeÕs contributions to the employee amend the employeeÕs payroll record and report correct values on the next FPS adjust your next payment to HMRC If an overpayment has occurred in a previous tax year when you have reported information using forms P35 or P14 for a previous real time information year, to get a refund the employee must write to the National Insurance enquiries for individuals helpline . Underpayment of employerÕs contributions If an underpayment occurs in the tax year: amend the employeeÕs payroll record and report the correct information on your next FPS adjust your next payment to HMRC If an underpayment occurred for a previous tax year, contact the PT Operations North East England at the address given at paragraph Ô3.7.6 More informationÕ for advice. 3.9 National Insurance contributions Ñ employer reliefs from secondary contributions Employers are entitled to a 0% rate of secondary National Insurance contributions for certain employees. 3.9.1 National Insurance contributions Ñ abolition of secondary contributions for those under 21 years of age A 0% rate of secondary National Insurance contributions applies for those employees under the age of 21 up to the UST . ThereÕs no reduction in the rate of Class 1 secondary contributions above the UST . ItÕs important to remember that this