which you pay it. $ . Calculate the tax using the tax tables for the tax period taking account of the regulatory limit if necessary. % . If thereÕs tax to be deducted, then deduct it from the payment. If thereÕs tax to be repaid do not repay it when you make the extra payment. The repayment should be added to the total tax due and used as your starting point when you next pay the employee. For cumulative su ! x codes Ñ main payment complete the following steps: # . Enter the main payment for the tax period in which you pay it. $ . Calculate the tax in the normal way but using the same Þgure of Ôfree payÕ used for Divide the earnings on which National Insurance contributions are payable by 2. 1 Look up this Þgure in the appropriate weekly table. 2 Multiply the National Insurance contributions shown in the table by 2. 3 Divide the earnings on which National Insurance contributions are payable by 4. 1 Look up this Þgure in the appropriate weekly table. 2 Multiply the National Insurance contributions shown in the table by 4. 3 Divide the earnings on which National Insurance contributions are payable by 3. 1 Look up this Þgure in the appropriate monthly table. 2 Multiply the National Insurance contributions shown in the table by 3. 3 Divide the earnings on which National Insurance contributions are payable by 6. 1 Look up this Þgure in the appropriate monthly table. 2 Multiply the National Insurance contributions shown in the table by 6. 3 Divide the earnings on which National Insurance contributions are payable by 12. 1 Look up this Þgure in the appropriate monthly table. 2 Multiply the National Insurance contributions shown in the table by 12. 3 Work out the daily Lower Earnings Limit ( LEL ) by dividing the weekly limit by 7. 1 Multiply the answer by the number of calendar days in the period which the payment covers. 2 Work out the daily Primary Threshold ( PT ), Secondary Threshold ( ST ) and Upper Earnings Limit ( UEL ), Upper Secondary Threshold ( UST ), Freeport Upper Secondary Threshold ( FUST ). Investment Zones Upper Secondary Threshold ( IZUST ), Veterans Upper Secondary Threshold ( VUST ) and Apprentice Upper Secondary Threshold ( AU S T ) as appropriate by dividing the annual Þgures by 365. 3 Then, multiply the answers for the Primary Threshold ( PT ), Secondary Threshold ( ST ), Upper Earnings Limit ( UEL ), Upper Secondary Threshold ( UST ), Freeport Upper Secondary Threshold ( FUST ), Investment Zones Upper Secondary Threshold ( IZUST ), Veterans Upper Secondary Threshold ( VUST ) and Apprentice Upper Secondary Threshold ( AU S T ) as appropriate by the number of calendar days in the period which the payment covers. 4 $ . Calculate the tax in the normal way but using the same Þgure of Ôfree payÕ used for the extra payment taking account of the regulatory limit for the payment if necessary. For K codes complete the following steps: # . Enter the extra payment for the tax period in which you pay it. $ . The Ôadditional payÕ should be added and tax worked out on this payment, taking account of the regulatory limit for the payment if necessary. % . When you pay the employee their main pay do not add the Ôadditional payÕ for the week or month, add their main pay to the total taxable pay you used when the previous payment was made, work out