date (on or before 4 April 2025) send the FPS on the actual payment date (7 April 2025) and complete the Ôlate reporting reason codeÕ G on the FPS , this is because if the FPS is sent on 7 April, showing a payment date of 4 April it will appear to be late and a penalty may be charged 1.8.1 Advance of salary Ñ RTI reporting Salary advances are arrangements allowing employees access to some of their salary before their normal payday. Arrangements to provide a salary advance can be made through an employer or a third party and are commonly known as salary advance schemes. If the advance is made by a third party acting on the employerÕs behalf, the reporting obligation remains with the employer. Employers no longer need to submit an additional FPS to record all salary advance payments. Amendments to legislation aim to ease the administrative burdens for employers and HMRC. These amendments only apply to certain salary advances. Where the amended legislation applies, employers must not report a salary advance to HMRCÕs RTI system until the payment of the remainder of the salary instalment. This means HMRC will now only expect one RTI report for each pay period. The amendments apply when certain conditions relating to the salary advance are met. These conditions are that the: employeeÕs salary is ordinarily paid at regular intervals of between one week and one month and the employer pays part of the salary in advance salary advance reasonably represents work undertaken or obligations performed by the employee under their contract with the employer Ñ no other relevant payment for this work has been made employer makes a regular relevant payment to the employee at the regular payday after the advance payment is made Ñ they should reduce the regular relevant payment by the amount of the salary advance Existing HMRC rules and guidance cover the other types of advance payments and loans to employees. Such payments and loans are therefore not within the scope of this guidance. Since 6 April 2024 normal Þxed late Þling penalties will apply if RTI returns are not Þled on time. Employers must account for their National Minimum Wage obligations when considering advances involving a fee. 1.9 Change of pay interval to a shorter interval If the interval between the payments of an employeeÕs earnings changes to a shorter interval, for example, monthly paid to weekly paid, take the following action. For National Insurance contributions purposes Work out National Insurance contributions from the Þrst payment after the change based on the new earnings period. Do this even if the Þrst weekly payday falls within the same tax month as the previous monthly payday. Read how to manually check your payroll calculations . For National Insurance contributions purposes use the same payroll record as before. Example A monthly paid employee changes to being weekly paid on the Þrst day of the month, after receiving a monthly salary the day before. The Þrst weekly payday is the Þfth. Although this payment is in the same tax month as the monthly salary, treat it completely separately and work out National Insurance contributions on the payment using a weekly earnings period. For PAY E purposes Work out PAY E using the weekly table on the Þrst payment after the change if you have not already paid the employee in the month. If you have already paid the employee in the month of change, use the same monthly table for the rest of that month and then use the weekly table from the beginning of the next tax