avoids a record being closed where more payments may be made Pension death beneÞt Enter ÔYesÕ Flexible drawdown taxable payment Enter the taxable element of any payment in the Þeld Flexible drawdown non- taxable payment Enter the non-taxable element of any payment Regular death beneÞt payments Field What to enter Starting date Only enter the start date if itÕs the Þrst payment to your pensioner and the payment is taxable. Do not include the starting date if it has already been reported in an earlier submission. If the payment is Ônon- taxableÕ, do not enter a start date Annual amount of the occupational pension Enter the annual amount of the occupational pension with the Þrst pension payment and do not pro-rata it from the start date. If the payment is all Ônon-taxableÕ enter 0.00 into the annual amount of occupational pension Þeld Taxable pay to date in this employment Enter the total taxable element of the pension paid to date within the tax year, including this payment. For a Ônon-taxableÕ payment, enter 0.00 To t a l t a x t o date in this employment Enter the total tax to date in this pension within the tax year. For a Ônon-taxableÕ payment, enter 0.00 Taxable pay in this period Enter the taxable pension in this pay period. For a Ônon-taxableÕ payment, enter 0.00 Value of payments not subject to tax and National Insurance contributions in pay period Enter any non-taxable element of the pension payment for payments made by Bacs Occupational pension indicator Enter ÔYesÕ in the Þeld on the Þrst and every payment Pay frequency Use the appropriate entry, for example M1 for Calendar Monthly or W1 for Weekly Tax code For Ônon-taxable paymentsÕ where the taxable amount reported is 0.00 enter Ô0TÕ and enter ÔYesÕ in the ÔTax Code Basis is non- cumulativeÕ Þeld. For taxable payments use the Emergency Code on a ÔWeek 1Õ or ÔMonth 1Õ basis until HMRC tell you the relevant code to use or where you have a current year P45, use that code on a ÔWeek 1 or Month 1Õ basis Pa y ro l l I D Include the payroll ID, if you want to use one Pension death beneÞt Enter ÔYesÕ Flexible drawdown taxable payment Enter the taxable element of any payment in the Þeld Flexible drawdown non- taxable payment Enter the non-taxable element of any payment in the Þeld 2.2.8 Serious ill health payments relating to pension schemes Members of a pension scheme su " ering from serious ill health may receive pension entitlement under an arrangement as a lump sum. The scheme administrator will commute this if certain conditions are met. How to report serious ill health payments under real time information Set up a new payroll record and use the information in the following tables on how to Þll in the FPS . Field What to enter Starting date Enter the time of reporting the Þrst payment to the recipient. Do not include the starting date if it has already been reported in an earlier submission Annual amount of the occupational pension Enter the annual amount of the occupational pension with the Þrst pension payment and do not pro-rata it from the start date Taxable pay to date in this employment Enter the total taxable element of the pension paid to date within the tax year, including this payment Total tax to date in this employment Enter the total tax to date in this pension within the tax ye a r Taxable pay in this period Enter the taxable pension in this pay period Value of 
