interval. If youÕre directed to use an annual earnings period to work out National Insurance contributions, the earnings period for the rest of the tax year in which the direction is made will be the number of weeks left in that tax year. 3.1.5 Working out National Insurance contributions when you Þrst pay an employee When you Þrst pay an employee, you must work out National Insurance contributions based on what will be the normal earnings period for the employment using the contribution rates and limits current at the actual time of payment. If the interval between an employee starting work and the Þrst payday is less than the normal earnings period, still work out National Insurance contributions using the normal earnings period. Example 1 A new employee starts work on 6 October and is due to be paid monthly on the last day of each month. The earnings period is monthly and the Þrst payday is 31 October. Work out National Insurance contributions using a monthly earnings period. If the interval between an employee starting work and the Þrst payday spans 2 or more earnings periods, and each period is in the same tax year, work out National Insurance contributions on the amounts due for each of those earnings periods separately using the normal earnings period. Example 2 A new employee starts work on 9 June and is due to be paid monthly on the last day of each month. The earnings period is monthly and the Þrst payday is 31 July (mistimed payments). The employee receives £3,300 gross pay which is made up of: £1,300 for the period 9 June to 30 June £2,000 for the period 1 July to 31 July Work out National Insurance contributions separately on the payment for: June of £1,300 and record National Insurance contributions on the employeeÕs payroll record in tax month 3 July of £2,000 and record National Insurance contributions on the employeeÕs payroll record in tax month 4 If the interval between an employee starting work and the Þrst payday spans 2 or more earnings periods, and the relevant earnings periods are in di " erent tax years, work out National Insurance contributions on the earnings due for each period separately using the normal earnings period. Use the contribution rates and limits current at the time the earnings are actually paid. Example 3 A new employee starts work on 10 March and is due to be paid monthly on the last day of each month. The earnings period is monthly and the Þrst payday is 30 April. The employee receives £2,300 gross pay which is made up of: £800 for the period 10 March to 31 March £1,500 for the period 1 April to 30 April Work out National Insurance contributions separately on the payment for: March of £800 using 2024 to 2025 contribution rates and limits and record National Insurance contributions on the employeeÕs payroll record in tax month 1 of 2024 to 2025 April of £1,500 and record National Insurance contributions on the employeeÕs payroll record in tax month 1 3.2 Working out National Insurance contributions for employees not paid on their usual payday Take the following action if you pay employees on a day other than their usual payday, for example, you bring the payday forward because of a bank holiday or you pay 2 monthsÕ salaries together to employees who submit their timesheets late (mistimed payments). If the actual date of payment and the usual payday are in the same tax year, treat the early or late payment as if it had been made at its