relates (or the 22nd if paying electronically). You can pay quarterly if you estimate over the full tax year that your total payment will be, on average, less than £1,500 per month. You must pay HMRC all PAY E and National Insurance contributions due, including that due on any non-cash payments made in that tax month or quarter, even if the employee did not have su ! cient cash, to allow all the deductions to be made in that pay period. 5.15.5 Recording a non-cash payment Regardless of whether or not the employer has borne the PAY E and employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions you must include the value of the non-cash payment of earnings with the related PAY E and National Insurance contributions due, on your payroll records for the employee, FPS and P60 as appropriate. If the employee leaves your employment during the year in which the non-cash payment of earnings was made, include the value of the asset and all PAY E due when updating the payroll information. 5.15.6 P11D RCAs liable to PAY E should not be reported on the P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers form, but tax not recovered from the employee may need to be reported on form P11D. 5.15.7 Employment income provided through third parties (disguised remuneration rules) Overview The rules on employment income made available through third parties deal with arrangements which: involve third parties (including trusts or other vehicles used to reward employees) attempt to avoid or delay payment of Income Tax These rules are sometimes called the disguised remuneration rules or the ÔPart 7AÕ rules (which refers to the part of Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 where most of the law is located). The law also deals with pension schemes which are not registered pension schemes. Broadly speaking, if third party arrangements are used to make available whatÕs in substance a reward or recognition, or a loan, in connection with the employeeÕs current, former, or future employment, then an Income Tax charge arises. A charge also arises where a third party is used as part of a tax avoidance arrangement to make available payments or assets to employees who have or have had a material interest in their employerÕs company. The arrangements have to pass what is known as the close company gateway. The rules contain detailed exclusions. These stop the law from catching certain arrangements. Generally the exclusions are targeted at arrangements which are not tax avoidance arrangements. If the law applies, it deems an amount to count as employment income. The amount that counts as employment income is speciÞcally brought within the scope of PAY E . Special rules deal with, for example, the interaction with the remittance basis. General approach to whether a transaction is a ! ected by the rules on employment income provided through third parties Ñ is there a third party involved This is a very important starting point in working out whether the rules on employment income through third parties (Ôthe Part 7A rulesÕ) apply. If the employer is providing something directly to the employee, and thereÕs no third party involved, then these rules will not apply. There are 3 exceptions to this general rule. The rules can apply: where the employer is acting as a trustee rather than as an employer as a result of steps taken by an employer when thereÕs an agreement that contributions will be paid to a relevant third person comprising an unregistered pension arrangement where the employee concerned is acting as a trustee instead of in their capacity as an employee or 
