PAY E and National Insurance contributions to be made. More information can be found in the running payroll guide. 2.9 Employees involved in a trade dispute or lock-out 2.9.1 When the special procedures apply and what they entail The special procedures must be applied to employees who are absent from work because theyÕre either: taking part in a trade dispute laid o " and have a direct interest in a trade dispute The special procedures for such employees are as follows, you: must withhold any tax refunds due to the employees for as long as theyÕre involved in the trade dispute, this applies even if an employee becomes sick after the trade dispute starts pay any tax refunds that you have withheld only when one of the following circumstances arise, the employee: returns to work leaves your employment dies 2.9.2 How to decide if an employee is involved in a trade dispute or lock-out ItÕs up to you, the employer, in the Þrst place to decide if an employee is involved in a trade dispute. Make your decision in the same way as you do for a report called for by Jobcentre Plus and contact them if youÕre in any doubt or di ! culty. Where you decide an employee is involved in a trade dispute, but they disagree, advise the employee to contact Jobcentre Plus. If they uphold the employeeÕs view, theyÕll give the employee written conÞrmation that theyÕre not disqualiÞed from receiving JobseekerÕs Allowance for being involved in a trade dispute. Where an employee produces such written conÞrmation: you cannot treat the employee as being involved in a trade dispute the special procedures do not apply and you must pay the employee any tax refunds due 2.9.3 Working out PAY E during the trade dispute If youÕre not paying anything to employees involved in a trade dispute you may put o " working out their PAY E until the earlier of the end of the trade dispute or 5 April. You must indicate on payroll that itÕs a trade dispute. If you do put o " working out their PAY E : youÕll not be able to deduct from your payments to the accounts o ! ce any refunds you have withheld Ñ read Ôparagraph 2.9.4 Payments to the accounts o ! ce during the trade disputeÕ where during the dispute an employee leaves your employment or dies, you must work out their particular PAY E in the normal way, paying any refund due including any refund withheld in a previous tax year and complete form P45 in the usual way If youÕre paying anything to employees involved in a trade dispute or youÕre not paying them anything but nevertheless choose to work out their PAY E , you must: make the PAY E calculations in the normal way where the PAY E calculations show that: a tax refund is due, withhold the refund from the employee tax is deductible, make the deduction from any pay the employees are receiving, any tax deductible should be reduced by any tax refund that youÕre already withholding from the employee, remember, however, to reduce the amount of refund owed to the employee by the amount used by the set-o " 2.9.4 Payments to the accounts o " ce during the trade dispute During a trade dispute the procedures that apply in relation to the payments you make to the accounts o ! ce are as follows: payments you have made to the accounts o ! ce for any tax month (or quarter where appropriate) ended before the trade dispute started, are