their own cars for business travel For the exemption to apply you must have a checking system in place to make sure that employees are in fact incurring and paying amounts in respect of the expenses and that a deduction is due in respect of the full amount paid or reimbursed. The exemption will not apply to expenses paid or reimbursed under a salary sacriÞce arrangement. Payments made under a salary sacriÞce arrangement should be made under PAY E . Employees can make a claim for tax relief direct to HMRC where any expense is incurred and not paid or reimbursed by you, where the exemption does not apply because the expense is not fully deductible, or where expenses or beneÞts are provided under a salary sacriÞce arrangement. 5.3.2 How to apply for an approval notice If you want to pay or reimburse employees subsistence expenses at a rate other than the HMRC benchmark scale rates youÕll need to apply to HMRC for an approval notice. Your application will need to set out the: employees or groups of employees you would like the approval notice to apply to amounts of expenses you would like to pay, the occasions you want to pay them on and conÞrm that the amounts are a reasonable estimate of the expenses actually being incurred by employees checking system you have in place for controlling and authorising payments and reimbursements Your checking system must be able to show that payments are only made on qualifying occasions where employees meet the relevant conditions for payment, that the amount paid is a reasonable estimate of the expenses being incurred, and that employees are in fact incurring and paying amounts in respect of the expense. Approval notices will last for up to 5 years. You must inform HMRC if: your checking system changes the circumstances under which you make payments changes the amounts you pay are no longer representative of the amounts your employees are actually incurring 5.3.3 National Insurance contributions on tax exempt expenses and beneÞts If you pay, reimburse expenses or provide beneÞts which are exempted from tax, theyÕll not be liable for National Insurance contributions. Where the exemption does not apply youÕll need to report and pay Class 1 National Insurance contributions on the full amount of the payment, or Class 1A National Insurance contributions on the beneÞt. 5.4 PAY E settlement agreement A PAY E settlement agreement is an agreement between you and your HMRC o ! ce under which you agree to pay the tax in a lump sum on certain expenses payments and beneÞts in kind you give to your employees. You do not have to include items covered by a PAY E settlement agreement on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers . In addition to making lump sum payments of tax, you also make lump sum payments of National Insurance contributions on items included in PAY E settlement agreements by paying Class 1B contributions. PAY E settlement agreements normally apply to items which are: minor given by you on an irregular basis Where itÕs impracticable for you to apply PAY E to them or include them on form P11D PAY E settlement agreements do not apply, for example, to wages and salaries To Þnd out more, read PAY E settlement agreements . More information about Class 1B National Insurance contributions Class 1B National Insurance contributions are payable on PAY E settlement agreements at the same time as tax, using the same payment slip. Class 1B National Insurance contributions are payable at the appropriate secondary employerÕs percentage rate on the total 
