an employment beneÞt, such as a company car, would not count as a relevant step) the step is connected with the arrangement in question However, you still need to work out if the transaction is speciÞcally excluded from the application of the rules. SpeciÞc exclusions from the Part 7A rules If an arrangement has met the tests for potentially coming within the scope of the Part 7A rules, that does not necessarily mean that it has given rise to Part 7A income. There are a number of speciÞc exclusions that cut down the scope of Part 7A considerably. Check carefully to see if at least one of the exclusions applies. The exclusions cover a range of circumstances including: relevant steps taken ÔunderÕ or Ôfor the purpose ofÕ tax-advantaged share schemes relevant steps taken under a registered pension scheme commercial transactions where the relevant third person is simply providing your employees with something that they provide on the same terms to members of the public in the ordinary course of their business certain transactions carried out as part of employee beneÞt packages certain transactions relating to deferred pay and share plan arrangements employee car ownership schemes Generally these exclusions are subject to speciÞed conditions. Part 7A income If the step in question has met the test for coming within the scope of part 7A and is not covered by any of the exclusions, then itÕll give rise to Part 7A income. The Part 7A income counts as employment income of the employee, and is deemed to be PAY E income paid by the employer. The general rule is that the amount of the Part 7A income will be the value of the relevant step. But there are rules which in certain circumstances will adjust this value, possibly down to nil. Where an amount is deemed to be PAY E income paid by the employer, apply the guidance on practical considerations on non-cash payments at paragraph Ô5.15.1 PAY E and National Insurance contributions on RCAs Õ onwards. For more information about Part 7A income, read Employment Income Manual EIM45000 onwards. 5.15.8 Employment income provided through third parties (Disguised Remuneration rules) for National Insurance contributions purposes Regulations to reßect the equivalent tax changes described in paragraph Ô5.15.7 Employment income provided through third parties (disguised remuneration rules)Õ apply where the arrangements attempt to avoid, reduce or delay payment of National Insurance contributions. Where a payment is made through third party arrangements (such as through an employee beneÞt trust) consider whether the payment is earnings under ordinary rules before applying the disguised remuneration rules. Where the payment is not earnings and itÕs treated as employment income for Income Tax purposes under the disguised remuneration rules set out in paragraph Ô5.15.7 Employment income provided through third parties (disguised remuneration rules)Õ, itÕs treated as earnings for Class 1 National Insurance contributions purposes. If the disguised remuneration rules treat an amount as earnings, the amount of earnings should be included in gross pay for Class 1 National Insurance contributions purposes, on the date the relevant step is taken, as set out in paragraph Ô5.15.7 Employment income provided through third parties (disguised remuneration rules)Õ. For example, if a loan is made to an employee, the date the loan is made to the employee, is the date the earnings are paid. National Insurance contributions are not due on the amount already included in gross pay when it was treated as earnings under the Part 7A rules. But if the amount that is earnings is more than the amount treated as earnings under the Part 7A rules, the extra amount should 
