of all workers they place with clients where they do not operate PAY E on the payments. Read about what this means for an intermediary within employment intermediaries reporting requirements or phone the Employment Intermediaries Compliance Unit on: 03000 555995. 5. Pay, expenses and beneÞts 5.1 What to include as gross pay on your employeeÕs payroll record The list which follows tells you what to include as gross pay for PAY E and Class 1 National Insurance contributions purposes. It lists the main type of payments that can be made to employees. Some entries will refer you to more detailed information elsewhere. This is because there may be special conditions for that type of payment. You can register now to use the online service to tax expenses and beneÞts through your payroll. If you do this you no longer need to complete a form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers for most taxable beneÞts excluding accommodation or loans. For more information, read about how to use the payrolling beneÞts and expenses online service . Important Even if the payment does not need to be included on your employeeÕs payroll record it may need to be shown on form P11D. For details of what to include on form P11D read the list at paragraph Ô5.2.6 P11D ListÕ . Type of payment: car or van fuel If car or van fuel has been supplied for private motoring using your credit card, garage account or an agency card. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No, if the conditions for the entry ÔCredit Cards, Charge cards or similar payment methodÕ are satisÞed, but there may be Class 1A liability, read Expenses and beneÞts for directors and employees Ñ a tax guide: 480 No Type of payment: car parking fees Car parking fees for business related journeys paid or reimbursed to employees. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No No Type of payment: cars or vans made available for private use Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No, but there may be Class 1A liability, read Expenses and beneÞts for directors and employees Ñ a tax guide: 480 No Type of payment: childcare vouchers For people using a childcare voucher scheme before 6 April 2011, they can be included in a scheme and receive vouchers of up to £55 a week, if certain conditions were met. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No, only any excess above £55 is to be shown No For people using a childcare voucher scheme before 6 April 2011, they can be included in a scheme and receive vouchers of up to £55 a week, but if certain conditions were not met. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E Yes, full amount of vouchers to be shown No For people new to a childcare voucher scheme from 6 April 2011 and conditions are met the amount available depends on the tax position of the individual. Rate of taxpayer Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E Ordinary rate taxpayer Yes, on any excess above £55 a week No Higher rate taxpayer Yes, on any excess above £28 a week No Additional rate taxpayer Yes, on any excess above £25 a week No For people new to a childcare vouchers scheme from 6 April 2011 and conditions are not 
