at paragraph Ô2.9.7 Procedure for employees whose withheld refunds you cannot pay at the end of the trade disputeÕ for any employee whose withheld refund you cannot pay work out how much you owe to, or are owed by, the accounts o ! ce, remember to allow for any deductions from payments to the accounts o ! ce that you have already made where your calculations show that youÕre owed by the accounts o ! ce you can either: deduct the amount youÕre owed from future payments you make to the accounts o ! ce claim the money back from the accounts o ! ce who will deal with your claim urgently, your claim must be in writing and show how you have worked out the amount youÕre claiming 2.9.6 Procedure at the end of the tax year if the trade dispute has not ended You must take the following action at the end of the tax year if the dispute has not ended: Þll in the normal Þnal submission for the year as if you had actually paid the refunds youÕre withholding complete form P60 to give to the employee, by 31 May and, either: enter a single Þgure of tax deducted on form P60 and give the employee a statement of tax withheld on form P61 give a separate statement on form P60 of the tax withheld and give the employee a form P62 continue, for the following tax year, to: carry out normal PAY E calculations withhold the tax refunds for as long as the employee is involved in the trade dispute You can get forms P61 or P62 from HMRC National Insurance Contributions and Employer O ! ce. 2.9.7 Procedure for employees whose withheld refunds you cannot pay at the end of the trade dispute Where an employee does not return to work at the end of the trade dispute, and you do not know where they are, youÕll not be able to pay the withheld refund to the employee. You should take the following action in such circumstances: pay to the accounts o ! ce any tax you have not refunded to an employee within 42 days of the end of the trade dispute include the Þgure of tax not refunded on the FPS where the Þnal FPS for a year has been submitted youÕll need to submit a another FPS , showing the amount of tax which has not been refunded 3. National Insurance only procedures 3.1 Earnings periods for National Insurance contributions purpose Ordinarily, the earnings period for working out National Insurance contributions is the regular interval between which payments of earnings are made. The following paragraphs describe how to decide what the earnings period is in di " erent circumstances. The rules described in those paragraphs ordinarily do not apply to directors. Read CA44: National Insurance for company directors for details on the earnings period to use for directors. 3.1.1 Employees paid at regular intervals If you pay your employees at regular intervals, for example, weekly or monthly, the earnings period for working out National Insurance contributions is that regular interval. If payments are made based on a regular interval but the actual day you pay them changes: treat them as paid at the regular interval work out National Insurance contributions separately on each payment even if 2 or more payments are made in the same earnings period Refer to the weekly or monthly guidance in paragraph Ô1.7 How to work out National Insurance contributions and PAY E for various pay intervalsÕ . 3.1.2 Employees not paid at regular intervals but can 
