. $ . Leave the National Insurance number Þeld blank. % . Enter ÔmaleÕ as the gender. & . Enter ÔRPÕ as the forename. ' . Enter the name of the recipient body as the surname. ( . Enter the address of the recipient body. ) . Indicate ÔYesÕ in the payment to a non-individual indicator Þeld. * . Do not enter a start date for the new recipient. 2.2.5 Trivial commutation payments and winding up lump sums relating to registered pension schemes Whether a trivial commutation payment or a winding up lump sum is taxable in whole or in part as pension income, tax must be deducted through PAY E from the taxable amount. Commutation where pension payments have already started (crystallised) In these cases: treat the trivial commutation payment in the same way as the earlier pension payments, and operate PAY E in the normal way complete form P45 including the taxable commutation payment and the pension payments made in the year give the P45 to the pension recipient enter the date of payment as the date of leaving on their payroll record so this is sent to HMRC when you report your payroll information enter on the FPS : the taxable element of the lump sum, or sums, paid in the Ôtaxable pay to dateÕ and the Ôtaxable pay in this periodÕ Þelds any non-taxable element of the lump sum, or sums, paid in the Ônon tax or National Insurance contributions paymentÕ Þeld For trivial commutation and small pot commutation lump sums only: indicate the trivial commutation type on the FPS : A Ñ trivial commutation lump sum B Ñ other lump sum (from personal pension schemes) C Ñ other lump sum (lump sum from occupational or public service pension schemes) enter on the FPS the total amount of the lump sum, or sums, paid in the Ôtrivial commutation paymentÕ Þeld Where payments are made to the same individual from separate pension pots, you must: report these separately use separate payroll IDs for each payment and complete the appropriate Þelds on the FPS Ñ these can be reported on the same date or on di " erent dates use di " erent end dates if payments are Ôone-o " Õ payments where both pots are being emptied Commutation payment where pension payments have not started (not crystallised) In these cases: use the BR code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, and no P45 is used when putting the trivial commutation payment through your payroll set the occupational pension indicator use the date of payment as the leaving date on their payroll record so this is sent to HMRC when you report your payroll information prepare a P45 and give it to the pension recipient include the payroll ID, if you want to use one enter on the FPS : the taxable element of the lump sum, or sums, paid in the Ôtaxable pay to dateÕ and the Ôtaxable pay in this periodÕ Þelds any non-taxable element of the lump sum, or sums, paid in the Ônon tax or National Insurance contributions paymentÕ Þeld for trivial commutation and small pot commutation lump sums only indicate the trivial commutation type on the FPS : A Ñ trivial commutation lump sum B Ñ other lump sum (from personal pension schemes) C Ñ other lump sum (lump sum from occupational or public service pension schemes) enter on the FPS the total amount of the lump sum, or sums, paid in the Ôtrivial commutation paymentÕ Þeld include a start date enter the total amount of the lump sum paid in