April to 5 May 1 6 May to 5 June 2 6 June to 5 July 3 6 July to 5 August 4 6 August to 5 September 5 6 September to 5 October 6 6 October to 5 November 7 6 November to 5 December 8 6 December to 5 January 9 6 January to 5 February 10 6 February to 5 March 11 6 March to 5 April 12 1.15 Payments made when an employee has died 1.15.1 For National Insurance contributions purposes No National Insurance contributions are due on the earnings of an employee who dies before payment of those earnings is made. 1.15.2 For PAY E purposes When you learn of the death of an employee you should enter a leaving date, this will be the date of death, on the FPS with the last payment for the deceased, do not issue a P45. PAY E should be deducted using the employeeÕs code, from any payments which were due to the deceased employee after the date the employee died but before you have completed the FPS , if theyÕre paid in the tax year the employee died. You must provide a date of leaving on the FPS , which in this case will be the employeeÕs date of death. If you make another payment after notifying HMRC of the date of death on an FPS , PAY E should be deducted using code 0T (on a week 1 or month 1 basis). You should record the deduction on the employeeÕs payroll record as follows if the payment is made in: the same tax year as the one in which the employee died Ñ record the details on the employeeÕs payroll record Ñ the date of leaving on the FPS should be the date of death and the ÔPayment after leavingÕ indicator should be set Ñ make sure the revised year to date Þgures include the additional payment a later tax year Ñ record the details on the payroll record in the name of the deceased employee and include details on the FPS Ñ the date of leaving should be the date of death and the ÔPayment after leavingÕ indicator should be set Ñ the year to date Þgures should only reßect the additional payment Check with your software provider whether the package you use will complete these calculations automatically for you. Use HMRCÕs online PAY E tax calculator to work out an employeeÕs Income Tax . 1.15.3 Death of pension recipient When you learn of the death of a pension recipient you should enter the leaving date (this will be the date of death) on the FPS with the last payment for the deceased. Do not issue a P45. PAY E should be deducted using the pension recipientÕs existing code, from any payments which were due to the deceased pension recipient, if theyÕre made in the tax year the pension recipient died. Record details of the payments on the pension recipientÕs FPS . If these payments are made in a later tax year to the one in which the pension recipient died, refer to the following information. Before you have notiÞed HMRC of the date of leaving on the FPS : use the tax code for the new year that you would have used if the pensioner had still been alive Ñ record the payment details on the payroll record in the name of the deceased pensioner complete the FPS using the new tax code only showing payments made in the new tax year Ñ payments made in the earlier tax year will be recorded on 
