intervals, for example, weekly or monthly, the earnings period for working out National Insurance contributions is that regular interval. If payments are made based on a regular interval but the actual day you pay them changes: treat them as paid at the regular interval work out National Insurance contributions separately on each payment even if 2 or more payments are made in the same earnings period Refer to the weekly or monthly guidance in paragraph Ô1.7 How to work out National Insurance contributions and PAY E for various pay intervalsÕ . 3.1.2 Employees not paid at regular intervals but can be treated as paid at regular intervals If a payment is not made at regular intervals, there may be a regular pattern covering the period for which each payment is made. In such cases, that regular pattern should be used as the earnings period. For example, if you pay your employees once a month and their contract shows their pay as a monthly amount, treat them as monthly paid even if sometimes theyÕre paid for 4 weeksÕ work and sometimes for 5 weeksÕ work. Refer to the monthly guidance in paragraph Ô1.7 How to work out National Insurance contributions and PAY E for various pay intervalsÕ . 3.1.3 Employees paid at irregular intervals If the interval between payments to employees is not regular, and cannot be treated as being regular, the earnings period for working out National Insurance contributions is the period which the payment covers, or one week, whichever is longer. If itÕs not reasonably practicable to determine the earnings period in this way, the earnings period will be from the date: of the previous payment to the date of the current payment the employment began to the date of the Þrst payment If either period is less than one week, the earnings period is one week. The earnings period for a payment made before the employment begins or after it ends is 1 week. If an employee is paid in irregular or unequal payments and itÕs established that this avoids, or reduces, the payment of National Insurance contributions, you can be directed to work out National Insurance contributions on a di " erent basis. In such cases, weÕll inform you of the basis to use. 3.1.4 More than one set of regular payments As a general rule, if an employee is paid more than one set of regular payments, all payments must be added together and National Insurance contributions worked out using the shorter of the regular intervals between payments. Example If an employee receives basic pay on a weekly basis and commission on a monthly basis, National Insurance contributions are worked out on the total pay based on a weekly earnings period. However, if you pay an employee at more than one regular interval and itÕs established by HMRC that most of the earnings are paid at the longer (or longest) interval, you may be directed to work out National Insurance contributions using the longer (or longest) interval. If youÕre directed to use an annual earnings period to work out National Insurance contributions, the earnings period for the rest of the tax year in which the direction is made will be the number of weeks left in that tax year. 3.1.5 Working out National Insurance contributions when you Þrst pay an employee When you Þrst pay an employee, you must work out National Insurance contributions based on what will be the normal earnings period for the employment using the contribution rates and limits current at the actual time of payment. If the interval between an employee starting