the employee who will have two lots of deductions made from their pay but you must contact HMRC before the end of the tax year. 4.6.5 Employees working in o ! shore areas You must operate PAY E for employees working o " shore, but there are exceptions. Before employees start working in these areas, write to HMRC for more information. You can Þnd our address in the help and guidance section of this guide. 4.6.6 Employees who work both in the UK and overseas An employee is considered to be internationally mobile if they work, or are likely to work, both in the UK and overseas in a tax year, and either: are, or are likely to be, non-resident in the UK in that tax year the tax year is, or is likely to be, a split year in relation to that employee This can result in uncertainty on whether a payment by an employer to an employee is subject to PAY E . Where there is any uncertainty, the entire payment is treated as being PAY E income, unless you, or another designated person, have made a notiÞcation to HMRC in the tax year proposing to treat a speciÞed proportion as not being PAY E income. From 6 April 2025 you can do this using an online form. Where a valid notiÞcation has been made online and HMRC have acknowledged receipt, you can exclude the speciÞed proportion of any uncertain payment from the operation of PAY E as soon as HMRC have provided the acknowledgement. From 6 April 2025 you can also make a notiÞcation for an employee who both: works, or is likely to work, both in the UK and overseas in a tax year is, or is likely to be, a qualifying new resident in that tax year You can read more guidance about qualifying new residents in the Employment Income Manual . This notiÞcation can specify the proportion of any income to be paid which you expects will relate to duties performed outside the UK. We will also allow a notiÞcation to be sent for employees who are likely to be treaty non-resident. Each notiÞcation can be made any time during a tax year in which an employee is internationally mobile or is, or is likely to be, a qualifying resident. A notiÞcation can only be made in relation to each employee individually and can only be made for a single tax year, although it will continue to have e " ect for any payment made to the employee in subsequent tax years where the income relates to the tax year for which the notiÞcation was made. Any HMRC directions that were issued before 6 April 2025 will cease to have e " ect from that date. This means that if you wish to operate PAY E on a reduced amount of an eligible employeeÕs income for the 2025 to 2026 tax year, you will need to submit a new notiÞcation form. This will avoid any unintended consequences due to the interaction between the old and new rules. 4.6.7 Tax code for payroll purposes for non-resident employees who have never been resident in the UK You may need to provide a tax code in the paying system. Code Ô NT Õ may be used where a business in the UK (or the UK branch or o ! ce of an overseas business) employs someone whoÕs non-resident, and the employee: is working wholly outside the UK has not been resident in the UK before does not intend to and will not perform any duties in the