Introduction This guide gives employers important information to help them run their payroll. The following guidance is for all employers. PAY E : detailed information has guidance on reporting PAY E in real time. About this guide This edition replaces Ô2024 to 2025: Employer further guide to PAY E and National Insurance contributionsÕ. Use this guide from 6 April 2025. Read PAY E : detailed information for more information about the day-to-day tasks in operation. This guidance also covers some less common situations, for example, HMRC may ask you to produce evidence of how you have worked out PAY E and National Insurance contributions. ItÕs important that you keep your records. These records must be made available to HMRC on request. There are legal requirements that mean employers must comply with their obligations. At the time of writing, this guidance sets out HMRCÕs view on how these legal requirements can be met. The operation of PAY E is based on the Income Tax ( PAY E ) Regulations 2003 and the payment of National Insurance contributions is based on the: Social Security Contributions and BeneÞts Act 1992 Social Security Administration Act 1992 Social Security (Contributions) Regulations 2001, as amended Social Security (Categorisation of Earners) Regulations 1978, as amended If you cannot Þnd the information you need in this guide, more help is available in PAY E : detailed information and from the employer helpline . Employers in Northern Ireland The operation of PAY E is based on the Income Tax ( PAY E ) Regulations 2003 and the payment of National Insurance contributions is based on the: Social Security Contributions and BeneÞts (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 Social Security (Categorisation of Earners) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1978, as amended If you cannot Þnd the information you need in this guide, more help is available in PAY E : detailed information and from the employer helpline . If youÕre unhappy with our service If youÕre unhappy with our service, phone the person or o ! ce you have been dealing with to allow us to put things right quickly. Their phone number will be on any papers they have sent. If youÕre still unhappy or youÕd like to deal with someone else, you can: complain about HMRC contact the Complaints Manager at the o ! ce you have been dealing with Terms used in this guide Gross pay The amount the employee is due to receive before any deductions are made. What counts as gross pay for PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes is deÞned in more detail in section Ô5. Pay, expenses and beneÞtsÕ . Income Tax year (tax year) A tax year is a period starting on 6 April in one year and ending on 5 April in the following year. For example, the 2025 to 2026 tax year starts on 6 April 2025 and ends on 5 April 2026. Income Tax weeks (tax weeks) Tax weeks are periods of 7 days which follow on from each other starting on 6 April each year. The Þrst tax week is 6 April to 12 April inclusive, the second tax week is 13 April to 19 April inclusive, and so on. The odd day or days at the end of the last complete tax week in the year, (5 April or in leap years, 4 April and 5 April) are treated as a whole tax week, which is tax week 53. Income Tax months (tax months) Income Tax months are periods following on from each other in an Income Tax year. They start on the 
