5 April, deduct from that the number at the date of commencement). After that, take into account the time elapsed between payments to the employee to work out the correct basis to use. For example, if the Þrst payment is in week 4, use the table for week 4. If the next payment is made in week 10 use the table for week 6 (10 minus 4). If the payment is made in week 10 but the employment started in week 6 use the table for week 4 (10 minus 6). If the payment is made in week 16 use the table for week 6 (16 minus 10). Pay interval Ñ employees paid once only You can use the HMRC tools and calculators or the Basic PAYE Tools for this interval. For this pay interval the earnings period is the length of time you employ them or one week whichever is longer. To work out the National Insurance contributions due, follow whichever rule applies. When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, if you employ your employee for: less than a week Ñ follow the roles for intervals of less than a week more than a week Ñ use the table for the week the employment ends If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for the week the employment ends if the employment started before the start of the tax year. If the employment started after the end of the tax year use the table for the length of the employment. For example, if the employment starts in week 5 and ends in week 9 use the table for week 4 (9 minus 5). 1.8 Operation of PAY E and Class 1 National Insurance contributions when the regular date for payment is a non- banking day Fo r PAY E purposes the payment may be treated as having been made on the regular payday when a regular payday falls on a non-banking day (Saturday, Sunday or bank holiday) and because of this, payment is made on the: last working day before the regular payday next working day after the regular payday This is also the date that should be reported on the FPS as the Ôpayment dateÕ even if the actual payment is made slightly earlier or later. Read paragraph Ô1.14 Standard payments made when, or after, an employee leavesÕ . For National Insurance contributions purposes the payment must be treated as if it had been made at its regular time, if the actual and regular payment days are in the same tax year. The payment may also be treated as having been made at its regular time when the payment dates cross a tax year. When a regular payday falls on a non-banking day but payment is made on the last working day before the regular payday Pay due on Thursday 1 January 2026 (tax month 9) but paid on Wednesday 31 December 2025, should be treated for PAY E purposes as being paid on 1 January 2026. For National Insurance contributions purposes the payment must be treated as having been paid on 1 January 2026. The Ôpayment dateÕ on the FPS should be 1 January 2026 and payments should be reported on or before 1 January 2026. When a payment is made on the Þrst working day after the regular payday Pay due on Monday 5 May 2025 (tax month 2) but paid on Tuesday 6 May 2025, should be treated for PAY E purposes as being paid on