guests. Form P11Ds also include helpful Þelds which indicate that you need to calculate the amount of Class 1A National Insurance contributions that may be due on speciÞc taxable beneÞts you provide to your employees. Read Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) . Guidance on what to enter on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers is given at paragraph Ô5.2.4 What to enter on form P11DÕ . P11Ds are not required for employees whose employer has registered for payroll beneÞts, read payrolling employees taxable beneÞts and expenses . Class 1A National Insurance contributions still needs to be calculated on the taxable amount of the beneÞt which was payrolled. 5.2.3 Form P11D(b) Complete a form P11D(b) to: conÞrm that by 6 July all forms you should have completed have been sent to HMRC calculate and declare the total amount of Class 1A National Insurance contributions youÕre due to pay, either from form P11Ds or through real time information for payrolling The return date for both form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers and form P11D(b): return of Class 1A National Insurance contributions on expenses and beneÞts is 6 July following the end of the year in which the beneÞts and expenses have been provided. Form P11D(b) can also be used to make adjustments to the total beneÞts liable to Class 1A National Insurance contributions taken from form P11D and calculated from payrolled taxable amounts. Employers who payroll beneÞts and expenses are still required to complete form P11D(b): return of Class 1A National Insurance contributions on expenses and beneÞts in respect of the Class 1A due on the beneÞts provided and make payment by the due date 19 July. 5.2.4 What to enter on form P11D Complete form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers to give HMRC details of your employeesÕ taxable beneÞts and expenses not subject to payroll. The list at paragraph Ô5.2.6 P11D ListÕ : sets out the various types of expenses that could be paid to employees and beneÞts that could be provided to them tells you whether or not you should enter the particular type of expense or beneÞt on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers 5.2.5 Reporting termination packages where amounts over £30,000 are taxable You need to report packages which are taxable only on amounts over £30,000. You do not need to do this if the package consists of cash only or, where it includes non-cash beneÞts, if it has an estimated value of £30,000 or less. You should make a report to: PT Operations North East England HM Revenue and Customs BX 9 1 BX United Kingdom This should be by the 6 July following the tax year in which the termination takes place, if a package is provided, which includes non-cash beneÞts and is estimated, over its lifetime, to exceed £30,000. In working out the cash equivalents of non-cash beneÞts for future years, to determine whether a report is needed or not, you only need make reasonable estimates using the rules in force in the year in which termination occurs. You do not need to wait until 6 July if you want to send the report earlier. You can send it at any time after the termination has occurred. You can prepare your report in whichever way suits you best. ThereÕs no prescribed form or format. A copy should always be given to the employee. If you make a report it must contain the following information: the total estimated value of the package details of the cash payments made and the cash equivalents of