element of the pension payment for payments made by Bacs Occupational pension indicator Enter ÔYesÕ in the Þeld on the Þrst and every payment Pa y ro l l I D Include the payroll ID, if you want to use one Pay frequency Enter ÔIrregularÕ Irregular employment payment pattern indicator Enter ÔYesÕ. This avoids a record being closed where more payments may be made Flexibly accessing pension rights Enter ÔYesÕ Flexible drawdown taxable payment Enter the taxable element of any payment in the Þeld Flexible drawdown non- taxable payment Enter the non-taxable element of any payment in the Þeld 2.2.7 Death beneÞt payments relating to pension schemes Read detailed information about the tax treatment of the di " erent types of death beneÞt payment in the Pension Tax Manual . How to report death beneÞt payments under PAY E through real time information Set up a new payroll record and use the information in the following tables where the income is usually treated as the recipientÕs. Lump sum death beneÞt Field What to enter Starting date Only enter the start date if itÕs the Þrst payment to your pensioner and the payment is taxable. Do not include the starting date if it has already been reported in an earlier submission. If the payment is Ônon- taxableÕ do not enter a start date Annual amount of the occupational pension Enter the annual amount of the occupational pension with the Þrst pension payment and do not pro-rata it from the start date. If the payment is all Ônon-taxableÕ enter 0.00 in the annual amount of occupational pension Þeld Taxable pay to date in this employment Enter the total taxable element of the pension paid to date within the tax year, including this payment. For a Ônon-taxableÕ payment, enter 0.00 To t a l t a x t o date in this employment Enter the total tax to date in this pension within the tax year. For a Ônon-taxableÕ payment, enter 0.00 Taxable pay in this period Enter the taxable pension in this pay period. For a Ônon-taxableÕ payment, enter 0.00 Value of payments not subject to tax and National Insurance contributions in pay period Enter any non-taxable element of the pension payment for payments made by Bacs Tax code operated on this payment For Ônon-taxable paymentsÕ, where the taxable amount reported is 0.00 enter Ô0TÕ and enter ÔYesÕ in the ÔTax Code Basis is non- cumulativeÕ Þeld. For taxable payments use the Emergency Code on a ÔWeek 1Õ or ÔMonth 1Õ basis until HMRC tell you the relevant code to use, or where you have a current year P45, use that code on a ÔWeek 1 or Month 1Õ basis Pa y ro l l I D Include the payroll ID, if you want to use one Occupational pension indicator Enter ÔYesÕ in the Þeld on the Þrst and every payment Pay frequency Select ÔIrregularÕ Irregular employment payment pattern indicator Enter ÔYesÕ only where the whole fund has not been withdrawn. This avoids a record being closed where more payments may be made Pension death beneÞt Enter ÔYesÕ Flexible drawdown taxable payment Enter the taxable element of any payment in the Þeld Flexible drawdown non- taxable payment Enter the non-taxable element of any payment Regular death beneÞt payments Field What to enter Starting date Only enter the start date if itÕs the Þrst payment to your pensioner and the payment is taxable. Do not include the starting date if it has already been reported in an earlier submission. If the payment is Ônon- taxableÕ, do not enter a start date Annual amount 
