for the employer National Insurance contributions in this period. % . Set the Aggregated Earnings Indicator. Example 3 Employee has 2 jobs with same employer, paid using di " erent PAY E references. Dev is aged 23 and has 2 jobs with the county council Ñ one as an apprentice in the planning department and one with the education department. Each department has a separate payroll, and so di " erent PAY E references. With the planning department, Dev earns £3,000 per month and with the education department he earns £250 per month. The National Insurance category letter for both jobs is ÔA and HÕ Standard and Apprentice under 25. The council adds together DevÕs earnings for National Insurance contributions purposes so that Dev and the council pay employee and employer National Insurance contributions on earnings of £3,250 per month. These are the aggregated earnings and National Insurance contributions must be calculated using the guidance. The council must record DevÕs earnings every month and send the information to HMRC when they report their payroll information on an FPS for each job. For the job with the planning department the council will record and report: taxable pay and pay subject to National Insurance contributions of £3,000 every month any employee National Insurance contributions deducted from DevÕs earnings in the pay period ÔYesÕ for the aggregated earnings indicator National Insurance category letter ÔHÕ For the employment with education department the council will record and report: taxable pay and pay subject to National Insurance contributions of £250 every month any employee National Insurance contributions deducted from DevÕs earnings in the pay period ÔYesÕ for the aggregated earnings indicator National Insurance category letter ÔAÕ The council decides to show the aggregated earnings on the job with the planning department. The records are updated to show: the employer National Insurance contributions due on the aggregated earnings for the pay period any additional employee National Insurance contributions due, as a result of aggregating the earnings and calculating the employee National Insurance contributions due on the total, reßected in the year to date totals the year to date National Insurance contributions data Þgures on the payroll record for the employee, to reßect the National Insurance contributions data for the aggregated earnings The education department shows Ô0.00Õ for year to date and employer National Insurance contributions in the pay period. Summary of data items Ñ month 1 Data Item Description Payroll ID Payroll ID 2 Notes 79 NI category H A Not applicable 79A Gross earnings for National Insurance contributions year to date £3,250.00 £0.00 Not applicable 79B Gross earnings for National Insurance contributions pay period £3,000.00 £250.00 Pay under LEL for ID 2 Ñ no need to report (if reported for tax). If over LEL (report actual pay). 82 Earnings at the LEL year to date £533.00 £0.00 Not applicable 82A Earnings at LEL to PT year to date £515.00 £0.00 Not applicable 86A Employer National Insurance contributions this pay period £0.00 £0.00 Not applicable 86Aa Employer National Insurance contributions year to date £0.00 £0.00 Not applicable 86B Employee National Insurance contributions this pay period £176.16 Actual if any employer may choose to deduct primary (employee) National Insurance contributions from either or both employments in the pay period, but must make sure the Ôyear to dateÕ data is all reported under one employment. 86Ba Employee National Insurance contributions year to date £176.16 £0.00 Not applicable 49 Ag g r e g a t e d earnings indicator Ye s Ye s Not applicable Monthly paid job You must report payment Ôon or beforeÕ every weekly pay, and 
