third parties (disguised remuneration rules)Õ . Employee shareholder status shares The employee shareholder employment status came into e " ect from 1 September 2013 (although those who take advantage of the status scheme will remain employed earners for National Insurance contributions purposes). Employee shareholders will have di " erent employment rights to employees, and in consideration for their agreement to adopt this status theyÕll be awarded by their employing company at least £2,000 worth of shares. There are tax reliefs for employee shareholder shares, and these apply from 1 September 2013. Income Tax and National Insurance contributions will usually not be chargeable on the Þrst £2,000 of share value received by an employee shareholder. This is because the employee shareholder is deemed to have made a payment of £2,000 for the employee shareholder shares. If shares having a market value of less than £2,000 are acquired, on the Þrst or only day that shares are acquired in consideration of an employee shareholder agreement, then the payment of £2,000 will not be deemed to have been made. The deemed payment by the employee only applies on the Þrst occasion on which they acquire qualifying shares under an employee shareholder agreement. Income tax reliefs and the Capital Gains Tax exemption relating to shares received as consideration for entering into an employee shareholder agreement on or after 1 December 2016 have been removed, although there are transitional rules for some employees who received the mandatory independent advice on their proposed employee shareholder agreement on 23 November 2016. For the employee shareholder agreement to have legal e " ect the employee must receive advice from a relevant legal adviser on the terms and e " ect of the employee shareholder agreement. The company is required to pay reasonable costs for that advice whether the individual accepts the job or not. When an employer funds the cost of independent legal advice received by a person considering an employee shareholder position, this will not be treated as a taxable beneÞt and there will be no Class 1A National Insurance contributions liability. Also, payments to the individual to reimburse any reasonable costs of advice will not give rise to any Income Tax liability and will be disregarded in the calculation of earnings for the purposes of earnings related National Insurance contributions. 5.15 Practical considerations on non-cash payments 5.15.1 PAY E and National Insurance contributions on RCAs Payment in the form of RCAs must be included in gross pay for both PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes. The amount on which PAY E should be operated and National Insurance contributions assessed is the amount of income which counts as employment income for Income Tax purposes. Include such notional payments in gross pay for the pay period the payment is deemed as paid. Work out PAY E in the normal way. If the employee is on a K code, ignore the 50% overriding limit when calculating the PAY E due on the payment. For chargeable events in relation to securities options, restricted securities and convertible securities, employees may enter into an agreement or election with the employer to meet some or all of the liability for employerÕs National Insurance contributions. In these circumstances employerÕs National Insurance contributions met by the employee is a deductible amount for Income Tax purposes but is not deductible in calculating the National Insurance contributions due. 5.15.2 Deducting PAY E from non-cash payments Recover from the employee the PAY E due on the non-cash payment by deducting it in both of the following ways: from any net wages, salaries, commission, fees and so on 
