any unintended consequences due to the interaction between the old and new rules. 4.6.7 Tax code for payroll purposes for non-resident employees who have never been resident in the UK You may need to provide a tax code in the paying system. Code Ô NT Õ may be used where a business in the UK (or the UK branch or o ! ce of an overseas business) employs someone whoÕs non-resident, and the employee: is working wholly outside the UK has not been resident in the UK before does not intend to and will not perform any duties in the UK An FPS is not required and thereÕs no liability for National Insurance contributions. If the residency position of the employee or the place the duties are performed change so that the employee becomes liable to UK tax, you should immediately stop using code NT and follow the procedure for new employee coming to work from abroad . 4.7 Workers providing their services through intermediaries This section deals with the following: workers supplied by agencies (for more information, read paragraph Ô4.2 Workers supplied by agenciesÕ ) workers paid by intermediaries which do not meet the deÞnition of managed service companies ÔIR35Õ rules workers paid by managed service companies IR35, at the end of the tax year o " shore employment intermediaries From April 2016 legislation was introduced that a " ects the application of the travel expenses and subsistence rules for workers who provide their services through an employment intermediary and who are subject to the supervision, direction or control of any party. When such a worker personally provides services (other than an exception for Ôexcluded servicesÕ) to a client through an employment intermediary, including a recruitment agency, umbrella company or other similar structure, then each assignment is considered to be a separate employment. This means that when a worker regularly commutes from home to a workplace for each assignment, they will not be eligible for relief on travel and subsistence. Each workplace is classed as a permanent workplace and so the travel is ordinary commuting. For more information, read Expenses and beneÞts for directors and employees Ñ a tax guide: 480 . Where a worker is supplied through their own company (for example, a personal service company ( PSC )) or partnership, it is not necessary to consider the test of supervision, direction, or control. In 2017, the government changed the o " -payroll working rules for the public sector, shifting responsibility for operating the rules from the workerÕs PSC to the organisation they work for. This is how employment status for tax is decided for the vast majority of people, who do not work through their own company. If the rules apply, the organisation that pays the individualÕs PSC will be responsible for deducting and paying the associated employment taxes and National Insurance contributions to HMRC from this deemed payment. Where the engaging public sector organisation determines that the o " -payroll working rules apply, the fee-payer, or other organisation responsible for operating PAY E on the deemed payment, should make sure the ÔO " -Payroll Worker subject to reformÕ ßag is ticked on the RTI Full Payment Submission ( FPS ). The FPS is submitted periodically using the companyÕs third-party software product or by HMRCÕs Basic Pay As You Earn To o l ( BPT ). This will be for each instance of the individualÕs pay cycle going forward whilst the o " -payroll working rules apply. If a mistake is made with this ßag, and the ßag needs to be ticked or unticked, this should be 
