into the scheme in the tax year to date from the employeeÕs gross pay Þgure. You can only deduct contributions which are paid after the pension scheme is registered. $ . If pension contributions have been paid in a previous tax year, send HMRC a list showing the names of the employees and the contributions each employee has paid. Occupational pension scheme contributions deducted from employeesÕ pay must be with the pension scheme by day 19 of the following month when paying by cheque and day 22 when paid electronically. Failure to meet this deadline could lead to civil proceedings by The Pensions Regulator . For the employeeÕs tax purposes, the contribution is treated as being paid on the date it was deducted from their pay. 2.2 Pension payments Pension payments, either to former employees or dependants of deceased employees: are usually included in gross pay for PAY E purposes for National Insurance contributions purposes: are not included in gross pay if paid out of a registered pension scheme (use category X if software requires a category) may need to be included in gross pay if paid out of an employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞts scheme (use appropriate category) Pension payments that may be wholly or partly exempt from tax are payments which have both: been awarded because an employee has ceased to hold an employment because of disablement attributable to the performance of the duties of the employment not been paid out of a registered pension scheme, contact HMRC before you make any such payments 2.2.1 Lump sum payments from pension schemes Registered pension schemes PAY E does not apply to lump sums paid under or out of a registered pension scheme, exce pt : trivial commutation payments, which are paid to members when small pension or annuity rights are fully commuted for a lump sum winding up lump sums uncrystallised funds pension lump sums ( UFPLS ) where a person receives a lump sum payment from a pension scheme from rights that have not previously come into payment, this may be either the fund in its entirety or part of the fund serious ill-health lump sum paid to members aged 75 or more taxable lump sum payments made to a beneÞciary of a deceased member pension commencement excess lump sum lump sums which exceed either or both the: lump sum allowance lump sum and death beneÞt allowance Normal PAY E rules apply to all such payments. Where the payments relate to beneÞt rights that have not previously crystallised (typically started to come into payment), PAY E is due on only 75% of the lump sum but not on the remaining 25%. If a UFPLS is paid to a member, PAY E applies to 75% of the amount paid. Where the lump sum exceeds a memberÕs available lump sum allowance and/or lump sum and death beneÞt allowance, the 25% tax free element only applies to the portion of the lump sum that is within the memberÕs available allowances. The remainder of the amount is subject to PAY E . PAY E is due on 100% of a taxable serious ill-health lump sum paid to a member aged 75 and over. Where a serious ill health lump sum is paid to a member under 75, PAY E is due only on the excess over a memberÕs available allowances that exceeds either or both: a memberÕs available lump sum allowance lump sum and death beneÞt allowance PAY E is due on 100% of a pension commencement excess lump sum. If a stand-alone lump sum is paid to a member PAY E is due