not due if cash tips are received directly from customers by your employees and are retained by them, and the monies never pass through your hands. Such tips are, however, taxable directly on the employee who should tell HMRC the amounts they have received. Your employees should declare the money to HMRC who will usually adjust their tax code to collect any tax due. For PAY E purposes If, as an employer, you operate a scheme that pays your employees a share of tips or gratuities (including cash tips received by employees and handed to you by the employees for sharing) or service charges (whether voluntary or mandatory) you must include the amount paid to each employee in their gross pay and deduct PAY E accordingly. PAY E and tronc schemes A tronc is a separate organised pay arrangement used to distribute tips, gratuities and service charges. You must tell HMRC when you Þrst become aware of the existence of a tronc, telling HMRC the troncmasterÕs name and the arrangements in place. If HMRC are satisÞed that thereÕs a tronc scheme for sharing tips or gratuities and service charges then weÕll set up a PAY E scheme in the troncmasterÕs name. The troncmaster is responsible for operating PAY E on all payments made from the tronc, including any share of cash tips. The troncmaster, or someone on their behalf, will need to operate a computerised payroll system and report payroll information to HMRC when or before the payments are made to employees. For National Insurance contributions purposes If you impose a mandatory service charge and the money is paid out to your employees, National Insurance contributions are due on the payments no matter what arrangements are in place to share out the money. If your employees receive tips, gratuities or voluntary service charges youÕll need to determine whether Class 1 National Insurance contributions are due on these. Read Booklet E24: Tips, gratuities service charges and troncs , which explains when National Insurance contributions will be due. Where National Insurance contributions are due, the responsibility for working out and recording the National Insurance contributions will always be yours, as the employer. If a troncmaster makes a payment to your employees on which National Insurance contributions are due, make sure you: know the amount being paid and the dates of payment include the payments in gross pay when working out National Insurance contributions update the employeeÕs payroll record accordingly and make sure the information is reported to HMRC The troncmaster should record the amounts on which National Insurance contributions are due separately from any tips or gratuities on which National Insurance contributions are not payable. If youÕre not satisÞed with the arrangements, it may be advisable to: share out the payments yourself get the formula for sharing out the payments put into the job contract It may also be advisable if you take responsibility yourself for paying all earnings to any employee whose basic pay is not enough for full deductions of PAY E and National Insurance contributions to be made. More information can be found in the running payroll guide. 2.9 Employees involved in a trade dispute or lock-out 2.9.1 When the special procedures apply and what they entail The special procedures must be applied to employees who are absent from work because theyÕre either: taking part in a trade dispute laid o " and have a direct interest in a trade dispute The special procedures for such employees are as follows, you: must withhold any tax refunds due to the employees for as long as theyÕre involved in the trade 
