are generally exempt from PAY E and National Insurance contributions liability when awarded or withdrawn from the plan provided the shares have been held in the plan for 5 years. Shares withdrawn from the plan earlier than 5 years because the employment has ended due to injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, death or a TUPE transfer or a transfer of the employing company out of the group are not liable to Income Tax or National Insurance contributions. ThereÕs also no Income Tax charge in certain cash takeovers. Shares that are RCAs and held for a shorter period may be subject to PAY E and National Insurance contributions liability in some circumstances. If the shares are not RCAs and an Income Tax charge arises then the tax is to be included in the personÕs Self Assessment tax return. 5.14.2 Restricted securities Securities (including shares) are restricted if theyÕre subject to forfeiture or have other restrictions which means that the market value of those securities is reduced, due to the restriction. If securities are subject to a forfeiture provision that lasts for less than 5 years then Income Tax will not arise at the time of acquisition unless an election has been entered into to disregard the restriction. PAY E and National Insurance contributions should be operated accordingly (subject to the security being an RCA ). If thereÕs no election then Income Tax will arise at the time when the forfeiture condition ceases to apply. PAY E and National Insurance contributions must then be applied if securities are RCAs . For restricted securities without a forfeiture restriction, Income Tax will arise at the time of acquisition on the value of the securities taking into account the value of the restrictions. More charges to Income Tax will arise when those restrictions are lifted. ItÕs also possible to enter into an election to disregard the restrictions at the time of acquisition in order to avoid more charges to Income Tax. PAY E and National Insurance contributions should be applied if securities are RCAs . 5.14.3 Special charges on employment related securities The following charges are subject to PAY E and National Insurance contributions where the securities are RCAs : chargeable events in relation to restricted securities chargeable events in relation to convertible securities charge on acquisition where market value of securities is artiÞcially depressed charge where market value of securities is artiÞcially enhanced charge on discharge of notional loan where securities are acquired for less than market value (but not the annual charge) charge where securities are disposed of for more than market value chargeable beneÞts from securities Even if the securities are not RCAs , if the consideration takes the form of cash or an RCA then PAY E and National Insurance contributions should be operated. Securities and security options provided through third parties There are special rules which may apply where arrangements use third parties to reward employees, including by way of securities and securities options. Read paragraph Ô5.15.7 Employment income provided through third parties (disguised remuneration rules)Õ . Employee shareholder status shares The employee shareholder employment status came into e " ect from 1 September 2013 (although those who take advantage of the status scheme will remain employed earners for National Insurance contributions purposes). Employee shareholders will have di " erent employment rights to employees, and in consideration for their agreement to adopt this status theyÕll be awarded by their employing company at least £2,000 worth of shares. There are tax reliefs for employee shareholder shares, and these apply from 1 September 2013. Income Tax and National Insurance contributions will usually not 
