need make reasonable estimates using the rules in force in the year in which termination occurs. You do not need to wait until 6 July if you want to send the report earlier. You can send it at any time after the termination has occurred. You can prepare your report in whichever way suits you best. ThereÕs no prescribed form or format. A copy should always be given to the employee. If you make a report it must contain the following information: the total estimated value of the package details of the cash payments made and the cash equivalents of non-cash beneÞts provided in the year in which the termination took place (where the report is made in the tax year best estimates should be supplied) an estimate of the cash payments to be made in future years an estimate of the total lifetime of the package with details of any contingency factors (for example, payments or beneÞts ceasing if the employee Þnds alternative employment) details of the type of beneÞts to be provided after the Þrst year and the terms of their provision (for example, car for 3 years, medical insurance for 10 years and so on) If, after you have made your report thereÕs a variation in the package and the total value increases by more than £10,000 youÕll need to make another report. This has to be made by 6 July following the end of the tax year in which the variation takes place. The report should only contain details of the variation. A report will also need to be made if, having originally decided that you do not need to make a report, thereÕs a variation in the package so that it includes non-cash beneÞts and exceeds £30,000. In these circumstances, you should send a report to HMRC, at the latest by 6 July following the end of the tax year in which the change takes place. The report, however, should be for the year in which termination occurred as if one had been required in the Þrst place. If you make such a late report remember to provide a copy to the employee. 5.2.6 P11D List This list gives general guidance only. It does not cover all expenses or beneÞts. Expenses and beneÞts for directors and employees Ñ a tax guide: 480 , gives more information as does the P11D Guide. If youÕre not sure what to enter on the P11D contact HMRC. Expenses and beneÞts can also attract a Class 1 or Class 1A National Insurance contributions liability. Guidance on Class 1A National Insurance contributions can be found in Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) . The list at paragraph Ô5.1 What to include as gross pay on your employeeÕs payroll recordÕ also gives information on when Class 1A National Insurance contributions may be due on payments of expenses and beneÞts. Employers who payroll beneÞts and expenses do not have to complete a P11D form. This is because theyÕre reported under real time information. The particular type of expenses or beneÞts you can include on form P11D The particular type of expenses or beneÞts you can include on form P11D are: assets given to the employee or transferred at less than market value assets provided for the employeeÕs use such as yachts, aircraft, furniture and kitchen appliances beneÞts or payments which could be turned into money or any other beneÞt business expense met wholly or partially by you car or van fuel supplied for private motoring in company vehicles all car or van fuel and all other beneÞts supplied for 
