National Insurance contributions year to date £0.00 £0.00 Not applicable 86B Employee National Insurance contributions this pay period £176.16 Actual if any employer may choose to deduct primary (employee) National Insurance contributions from either or both employments in the pay period, but must make sure the Ôyear to dateÕ data is all reported under one employment. 86Ba Employee National Insurance contributions year to date £176.16 £0.00 Not applicable 49 Ag g r e g a t e d earnings indicator Ye s Ye s Not applicable Monthly paid job You must report payment Ôon or beforeÕ every weekly pay, and may deduct National Insurance contributions. You do not need to report year to date National Insurance contributions data on this employment, since this will be reported on the monthly FPS . Assume week 18 Data Item Description Note 79 NI category M 79A Gross earnings for National Insurance contributions year to date Not applicable 79B Gross earnings for National Insurance contributions pay period £300 82 Earnings at the LEL year to date £2,214.00 82A Earnings at LEL to PT year to date Not applicable 169 Earnings from PT to UEL year to date Not applicable 86A Employer National Insurance contributions this pay period Not applicable 86Aa Employer National Insurance contributions year to date Not applicable 86B Employee National Insurance contributions this pay period Actual if any deduction made 86Ba Employee National Insurance contributions year to date Not applicable 49 Aggregated earnings indicator Ye s 3.5.2 Deferment of the payment of employeeÕs National Insurance contributions for employees with more than one job Employees with more than one employment, who anticipate earning in excess of the ! UEL ! in one, or in a number of employments, can apply to HMRC to defer some of their National Insurance contributions liability. Where permission is granted, the employee will pay the additional rate of 2% on all earnings above the ! PT in the deferred employments. If an application is allowed, HMRC will send form CA2700 to the employer concerned authorising them to deduct primary (employee) National Insurance contributions at a rate of 2% on all earnings above the ! PT . EmployerÕs National Insurance contributions are still payable at the full standard rate. An application for deferment is required each year. If you receive form CA2700 for an employee, use the appropriate category letter as follows: category letter ÔJÕ for an employee aged 21 or over category letter ÔZÕ for an employee under the age of 21 category letter ÔLÕ for an employee working in a designated Freeport tax site category letter ÔDÕ for an employee working in a designated Investment Zone tax site thereÕs no deferment category letter for apprentices under 25 thereÕs no deferment category letter for armed forces veterans 3.6 What to do if you have already deducted employeeÕs National Insurance contributions in the tax year prior to receipt of form CA2700 If you have already deducted employeeÕs National Insurance contributions: recalculate the employee National Insurance contributions due at 2% on all earnings above the PT above the PT refund to the employee the di " erence between the National Insurance contributions paid and the amount now due adjust your next payment to the accounts o ! ce as long as itÕs for the same tax year adjust the category letter under which the National Insurance contributions are due on the employeeÕs payroll record to the appropriate category letter for deferment report the correct year to date information on your next FPS keep a record of earnings on which employee National Insurance contributions would have been deducted Employees with more 
