in lieu of notice provided for by such a scheme. The redundancy may be paid indirect. For example, an employee leaves as a result of a reduced need for employees elsewhere in the business. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No, but Class 1A National Insurance contributions are payable on amounts over £30,000 only. Read CWG5 for more details. On amounts over £30,000 only. Read paragraph Ô5.11.1 Type of paymentÕ and paragraph Ô5.11.4 Foreign serviceÕ 8. Payments made as damages if the termination was a breach of contract For example, you agree, or the courts or an employment tribunal rules, that the employee was unfairly or wrongly dismissed Ñ if you pay something which is due under the terms or conditions of employment, it will not be damages, for example, you may be ordered, or agree as part of a settlement of damages, to pay wages due under such terms Ñ in these circumstances that element of the payment must be included in gross pay for National Insurance contributions and PAY E purposes. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No, but Class 1A National Insurance contributions are payable on amounts over £30,000 only. Read CWG5 for more details. On amounts over £30,000 only. Read paragraph Ô5.11.1 Type of paymentÕ and paragraph Ô5.11.4 Foreign serviceÕ 9. Payments for the employee giving a restrictive covenant A restrictive covenant is an undertaking which restricts the employeeÕs conduct. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes Ye s Ye s 10. EmployeeÕs legal costs These are the costs incurred in bringing a claim to compensation for loss of employment. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No May be tax-free, ask HMRC about Section 413A Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 11. Cost of Ôoutplacement counsellingÕ This includes such things as, a course: or advice to assist the employee in Þnding new employment to help the employee adjust to the termination of employment provided that the counselling is generally available to employees Reimbursed costs and associated travelling expenses are treated in the same way. These are the costs incurred in bringing a claim to compensation for loss of employment. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No No 12. Cost of retraining courses This covers the payment or reimbursement of retraining course expenses for an employee whoÕs about to leave, or who has recently left your employment. The course must be: full-time, or substantially fully last for no more than one year be designed to provide the employee with skills or knowledge which will help them to Þnd alternative employment (including self-employment) There are more conditions relating to the time when the employee starts the course, and the period for which the employee has worked for you. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No No 13. Pension Registered pension schemes. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No Ye s Employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞt schemes. Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E purposes No, if the payment satisÞes certain conditions. Ye s Pension ßexibility, including UFPLS . Include in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes Include in gross pay for PAY E 
