employer helpline . You can also use the expenses and beneÞts: A to Z . For expenses and beneÞts which are being payrolled, the tax should be reported through RTI . Class 1A National Insurance contributions is payable on expenses and beneÞts which attract a Class 1A National Insurance contributions charge, whether or not theyÕre payrolled through real time information or reported on form P11D. For more information, read payrolling employees taxable beneÞts and expenses . 5.2 Giving HMRC details of your employeesÕ beneÞts and expenses These paragraphs tell you what forms you have to complete to give HMRC details of your employeesÕ beneÞts and expenses: paragraph Ô5.2.1 Form P46 (car)Õ tells you about the form P46 (car) you must send during the tax year, to give HMRC the details we need about certain employees who are provided with a car which is available for private use paragraph Ô5.2.2 Form P11DÕ to paragraph Ô5.2.3 Form P11D(b)Õ tell you about the forms P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers and P11D(b) you must send at the end of the tax year, to give HMRC the details we need about the expenses you have paid and the beneÞts provided for your employees during the tax year and the amount of Class 1A National Insurance contributions youÕre due to pay Ñ you must send these forms in time to reach the HMRC National Insurance contributions and Employer O ! ce by 6 July 5.2.1 Form P46 (car) Employers who payroll car and car fuel beneÞts do not have to send a P46 (car) where the car has been made available after they have registered for payroll, instead the car details will be reported through real time information. Complete a form P46 (car) or online equivalent to give details of all employees and directors for whom form Expenses and beneÞts for employers: Reporting and paying - GOV.UK is appropriate, who are provided with a car which is available for private use . The completed form P46 (car) must be sent within 28 days of the end of the quarter to 5 July, 5 October, 5 January or 5 April in which any of the following takes place: the employee or director is Þrst provided with a car which is available for private use the employee or director is provided with a second or further car which is available for private use a car provided to the employee or director is withdrawn and not replaced Full guidance and information on the tax and National Insurance contributions aspects of company cars can be found in Expenses and beneÞts for directors and employees - a tax guide: 480 and Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (C W G 5 ) . 5.2.2 Form P11D Complete a form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers to give details of all taxable expenses payments and the cash equivalent of any taxable beneÞts provided for employees, directors of a company or business or their families, dependants and guests. Form P11Ds also include helpful Þelds which indicate that you need to calculate the amount of Class 1A National Insurance contributions that may be due on speciÞc taxable beneÞts you provide to your employees. Read Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) . Guidance on what to enter on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers is given at paragraph Ô5.2.4 What to enter on form P11DÕ . P11Ds are not required for employees whose employer has registered for payroll beneÞts, read payrolling employees taxable beneÞts and expenses . Class 1A National Insurance contributions still 
