Community Amateur Sports Clubs to be o " set against their employer Class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions. Businesses, charities, certain individuals who employ care and support workers and Community Amateur Sports Clubs may claim the Employment Allowance if the earnings they pay give rise to a secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions liability. For claims between 6 April 2020 and 5 April 2025 the Employment Allowance was not available to employers who had qualifying Class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions liabilities of £100,000 or more in the previous tax year. This will cease from 6 April 2025 onwards. Re a d ! Employment Allowance ! to check if you qualify. In the case of a business, this could be a company, a partnership or a self-employed individual, if they have employees whose earnings give rise to a secondary Class 1 liability. The Employment Allowance is not available for certain domestic employers (a nanny or a chau " eur), public authorities (unless a charity), employers already claiming through a connected business or charity and companies with one employee whoÕs paid above the secondary threshold and that employee is the director. Service companies are not able to claim in respect of deemed payments of employment income. The Employment Allowance is straight forward to claim. You can do this as part of the normal payroll process through ! RTI ! within your software package or using the Basic PAY E ! Tools ! which are free to download. YouÕll need to determine if youÕre eligible for the Employment Allowance and, from 6 April 2020 onwards, you must do extra checks to determine your eligibility to claim. Your software should ask you to specify if you want to claim the Employment Allowance and you should select the appropriate response. You will also need to give information about the business sector you operate in (if your business is not engaged in economic activity, the state aid rules will not apply to you and you must let HMRC know this too) and how much state aid you have received or been allocated over the previous 2 years and to-date in the current tax year. You need to complete this information even if you have not received any state aid before (you can enter Ô0Õ as the amount of state aid received or allocated). Not having received state aid before does not mean that you are not subject to state aid rules. Alternatively, the Employment Allowance can be claimed through the ! Basic ! PAY E ! To o l s ! if your software does not enable this. From 6 April 2020 onwards youÕll need to make a new claim for Employment Allowance each tax year. Claims will not automatically roll over to the next tax year. If you claim the Employment Allowance and state aid rules apply to your business, you will receive a letter to conÞrm your claim. If you do not receive a letter, check your Generic NotiÞcation Service ( GNS ) messages to view the reasons for rejection. The Employment Allowance will cease being state aid from 6 April 2025. The Employment Allowance is o " set against payments of secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions until the full annual amount of allowance is used up or the tax year ends, whichever is soonest. Employment Allowance has more information, details of eligibility and how to claim the National Insurance contributions Employment Allowance. 3.9.4 Apprenticeship Levy Employers with an annual pay bill of over £3 million have to pay the apprenticeship levy. The levy is charged at a rate of 0.5% on 
