contributions purposes, on the date the relevant step is taken, as set out in paragraph Ô5.15.7 Employment income provided through third parties (disguised remuneration rules)Õ. For example, if a loan is made to an employee, the date the loan is made to the employee, is the date the earnings are paid. National Insurance contributions are not due on the amount already included in gross pay when it was treated as earnings under the Part 7A rules. But if the amount that is earnings is more than the amount treated as earnings under the Part 7A rules, the extra amount should be included in gross pay for National Insurance contributions purposes. Appendix 1 Ñ other useful forms and guidance issued by HMRC This is a list of other useful forms and guidance issued by HMRC: 480: expenses and beneÞts Ñ a tax guide Tax and National Insurance contributions for employee travel: 490 Guidance for employers on using Basic PAY E Tools ( BPT ) CA38: National Insurance contributions tables A, F, H, J, L, M, V and Z CA40: employees allowed to pay their own National Insurance CA41: National Insurance contributions tables B, C, I and S. CA42: foreign-going mariners and deep-sea Þshermen CA44: National Insurance for company directors Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) P6 P6T P9(T) P9X P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers How to complete forms P11D and P11D(b) P11D(INT) P14 P30B P32 P35 P35(CS) P38/P38A P39 P45 P45W PAY E Ñ read Tell HMRC about a car provided to an employee for private use P60 tax tables Help and guidance You can get help and guidance from the following sources. Help from GOV.UK Find out more about setting up a business . Webinars are a way of learning about your payroll, such as ÔGetting payroll information rightÕ. This webinar covers the most common errors that employees make when submitting information to HMRC. It shows you how to provide accurate data and avoid common payroll mistakes. For more information, read HMRC email updates, videos and webinars for employing people . Any page printed from the online version of this guidance is uncontrolled and may not be the latest version. HMRC recommend that you always check youÕre referring to the latest online version. Online services For information and help to sign in or register, read HMRC services online . For more help, contact the online services helpdesk . Basic PAY E Tools The Basic PAY E Tools ( BPT ) is software that you download onto your computer. It will help you run your payroll throughout the year. ItÕs designed for employers who have 9 or fewer employees, and you can use it to calculate payroll deductions and then report payroll information online in real time. To Þnd out more information about the Basic PAY E Tools and other HMRC recognised software, read Þnd payroll software . Employer helplines If you have: been an employer for less than 3 years, telephone: 0300 200 3211 been an employer for 3 years or more, telephone 0300 200 3200 a hearing or speech impairment, textphone: 0300 200 3212 Tell HMRC your employer PAY E and Accounts O ! ce references when you contact HMRC. YouÕll Þnd them on correspondence HMRC have sent you. Employer help books and forms Help books and forms are available to download, read payroll forms, tables and helpbooks for employers . Yr laith Gymraeg I lawrlwytho " urßenni a llyfrynnau cymorth Cymraeg, ewch i www.gov.uk/cymraeg sgroliwch i lawr iÕr pennawd ÔTrethÕ a dilynwch y cysylltiadau ÔFfurßenni Cyllid a Thollau EM (CThEF)Õ ac ÔArweiniad