entitled to pay National Insurance contributions at the reduced rate) 3.7.4 When to return a certiÞcate of election You must return a certiÞcate to your employee when they: leave your employment tell you that their marriage has ended in divorce or by annulment reaches State Pension age have not, in any 2 consecutive tax years since 6 April 1978: had any earnings on which Class 1 National Insurance contributions are payable or treated as paid been self-employed have changed their name remarry ask for it back become widowed Complete the parts of the certiÞcate which apply to you before you return it to your employee. When you have returned a certiÞcate, if the woman still works for you, deduct standard rate National Insurance contributions unless they have: given you a new certiÞcate of election reached State Pension age and has provided you with proof of that (read paragraph Ô3.7.6 More informationÕ and paragraph Ô3.8.1 CertiÞcates of age exceptionÕ ) If you cannot return a certiÞcate of election to an employee who has left, send it with a note of explanation to PT Operations North East England at the address given in paragraph Ô3.7.6 More informationÕ . 3.7.5 Adjusting National Insurance contributions You must reassess and adjust any National Insurance contributions already deducted if your employee: gives you a valid certiÞcate of election part way through the tax year is late in telling you that theyÕre no longer entitled to pay reduced rate National Insurance contributions Overpayment of National Insurance contributions If an overpayment of National Insurance contributions occurs in the current year as a result of your receiving a valid certiÞcate of election part of the way through the year: refund the amount overpaid to the employee amend the employeeÕs payroll records and report corrected information on the next FPS adjust your next payment to the accounts o ! ce To get a refund of an overpayment in a tax year which has ended when you have reported information, the employee must write to the National Insurance enquiries for individuals helpline , quoting their National Insurance number. Underpayment of National Insurance contributions If an underpayment has occurred as a result of the employee being late in telling you that theyÕre no longer entitled to pay reduced rate National Insurance contributions, read Ôsection 1. General proceduresÕ . 3.7.6 More information More information about the right to pay reduced rate National Insurance contributions can be obtained by phoning the employer helpline or writing to HMRC at the following address. HM Revenue and Customs PT Operations North East England BX 9 1 A N United Kingdom 3.8 Payment of National Insurance contributions for employees over State Pension age Employees over State Pension age do not have to pay employeeÕs contributions. EmployerÕs contributions are still due. For more information and the State Pension age calculator, read check your State Pension age . As the employer youÕre responsible for making sure that the correct contributions are paid, and before you stop deducting employeeÕs contributions you must have seen proof that the employee has reached State Pension age. This can be a birth certiÞcate, passport or certiÞcate of exception, issued by DW P (Department for Communities (DfC) in Northern Ireland). You should keep a copy of the proof you have seen because if you stop deducting employeeÕs contributions without seeing proof, youÕre responsible for any underpayment. The employeeÕs birth certiÞcate or passport should be used as proof of age as HMRC no longer issues age exception certiÞcates. There will be very rare instances where an employee is reluctant to provide the employer with a birth certiÞcate 
