underpayment. This will usually be where HMRC cannot recover the PAY E from the employer. Where HMRC also identify that an employee received pay knowing that the primary contributions had not been deducted or paid over, a decision can be made for the employee to pay those contributions. 1.19.2 Arrears of pay for closed years Arrears of pay are earnings paid after the date that an employee should have received them and are usually paid as a lump sum. Arrears of pay are earnings and are treated just as if they had been paid at the right time. Where youÕre obliged to pay arrears of pay to employees in respect of closed tax year (for example, where a court orders an employer to pay arrears under equal pay legislation) you should for: National Insurance contributions purposes enter the full amount of the arrears paid on the current year payroll record at the time of payment and work out National Insurance contributions in the normal way, include on your next FPS PAY E purposes: submit an FPS calculate and deduct tax for each closed year as if the additional pay had been paid at week 53 for that year (read paragraph Ô1.13 Payments made in week 53Õ ) use the employeeÕs tax code for each closed tax year, weÕll supply the appropriate tax codes for each of the closed tax years if you no longer have them give each employee a letter showing the revised pay for each tax year and the tax and National Insurance contributions deducted, each letter should also contain the following message: ÔIf you think that youÕve overpaid tax or National Insurance contributions for any of the years concerned you should contact HMRC National Insurance contributions and Employer O ! ce.Õ 1.20 Paying a refund of tax when no payments are due to your employee If an employee on a cumulative code is due a refund of tax but is not entitled to receive any payment from you in a pay period because: theyÕre absent on unpaid leave they have no further entitlement to: Statutory Sick Pay ( SSP ) Statutory Maternity Pay ( SMP ) Statutory Paternity Pay ( SPP ) Statutory Shared Parental Pay ( ShP P ) Statutory Adoption Pay ( SA P ) Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay ( SPBP ) Statutory Neonatal Care Pay ( SNCP ) theyÕre not absent as the result of a trade dispute You must operate PAY E or run your payroll as if making a nil payment as long as the employee or their authorised representative has asked you to do so. 1.21 Di ! erent employer PAY E references for separate groups of your employees You may choose to have di " erent employer PAY E references for separate groups of your employees. For example, for wages and salaries or for separate branches of your organisation. To do this you make an election by: using the online service Þlling in the form on-screen, printing it o " and posting it to HMRC An election can be made at any time before the beginning of the tax month immediately before the month in which the election is due to start. For example, an election received in May 2024 to start from June 2024. Making the election means each employer PAY E reference will be treated separately for all PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes, with separate payroll records needed for each one. Where you have an election: you must take into account the total Class 1 National Insurance contributions for all your schemes when working out whether 
