to deduct by reference to the pay for week 53, 54 or 56 plus the amount of pay adjustment (that is Ôadditional payÕ) shown in tax tables A using the table for: week 1 if the employee is weekly paid week 2 if the employee is fortnightly paid week 4 if the employee is 4-weekly paid If after following this guidance youÕre approached by an employee who has been advised by HMRC that they have underpaid PAY E , you should conÞrm to them that you have not made an error in your payroll and advise the employee to read: the notes enclosed with the calculation tax overpayments and underpayments for more information 1.14 Standard payments made when, or after, an employee leaves For the purposes of this guidance, ÔstandardÕ payments mean such items as: the Þnal payment of salary or wages holiday pay week-in-hand payments bonuses It does not mean additional one-o " payments such as retirement, redundancy, lump sums and so on, these payments are dealt with in section Ô2. Special proceduresÕ . Arrears of pay such as those arising from National Minimum Wage or equal pay reviews must be dealt with in accordance with the guidance in paragraph Ô1.19 Overpayments or underpayments of salary or pensionÕ . PAY E and National Insurance contributions deductions are due on any standard payments you make to employees when they leave or after they have left. The payments should be submitted on the FPS along with the year to date Þgures. If the payment is made in a later tax year to the one in which the employee left, an FPS is required in the later tax year for the tax period that payment is made. The year to date Þgures on the FPS should reßect only that payment. For PAY E purposes If you have already given an employee a form P45 you should deduct PAY E using code 0T (non-cumulatively on a week 1 or month 1 basis) using the normal pay period for the employee (for example, monthly or weekly), at the time you make the payment. This payment should be submitted on an FPS . Payments in connection with employment related securities, including cash payments arising from those securities, made to an employee after leaving should also be taxed using code 0T for England and Northern Ireland, S0T for Scotland and C0T for Wales (week 1 or month 1 basis non-cumulatively). In such cases, you should provide the employee with documentary conÞrmation of the payment (for example, by letter, payslip or other printed or printable document) giving the following details: the date of the payments the taxable amount of each payment the amount of PAY E tax deducted from each payment conÞrmation that the payment is a post-leaving payment Include the details, set the ÔPayment after leavingÕ indicator and show the original date of leaving on the FPS when you make the payment. You must not give the employee another form P45. For National Insurance contributions purposes Ñ payments made when an employee reaches the age of 21 or an apprentice reaches the age of 25 If the payment is made on or after the employee reaches their 21st birthday or the apprentice reaches their 25th birthday, work out National Insurance contributions using the: usual earnings period contributions rates and limits current at the time of payment correct National Insurance category letter for an employee over the age of 21 or an apprentice over the age of 25 For National Insurance contributions purposes Ñ payments made before an employee reaches the age of 21 or an apprentice 
