tax yearÕ. For PAY E purposes Where you discover that you have under deducted PAY E by mistake you can ask HMRC for a direction Ñ read the advice for ÔMistake in the amount of National Insurance for a direction Ñ read the advice for ÔMistake in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted during the tax yearÕ at paragraph Ô1.18.1 Mistake in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted during the tax yearÕ. 1.19 Overpayments or underpayments of salary or pension Unintentional overpayments If you unintentionally overpay wages or pension, the following guidance explains what to do. Examples of unintentional overpayments are: an employeeÕs pay was recorded incorrectly, resulting in them receiving higher wages than they were entitled to an employee gets a payment of wages for the period after leaving as your payroll o ! ce does not know they left a pensioner dies, but pension payments continue because the pension payer had not been informed an employee is paid for work or overtime they did not do Adjustments during the tax year When an unintentional overpayment is made and the employee or pensioner continues to be entitled to employment or pension income, the mistake must be corrected in your next FPS by reporting the correct total payments to date and correct net tax to date. This means that the PAY E tax deducted on the overpayment can be set o " by reducing your next monthly remittance to HMRC, you: should make sure you make a note in your records to explain the reason for the adjustment must keep a record of the method used to recover the net pay or pension from the individual Ñ for instance, the individual may pay you directly or you may have agreed with the individual to recover the overpayment as a post-tax deduction in their future pay or pension Adjustments after the end of the tax year Where an unintentional overpayment is discovered after the end of the tax year, you can submit a revised Þnal FPS . You should: report the correct total payments and net tax for the tax year make a note in your records to explain the reason for the revised Þnal FPS have proper arrangements in place to recover net pay or pension from the individual and have evidence to demonstrate how the recovery was made or is being made You must give your employee, pensioner or representative details of the amendment either in a letter showing the amendment or in a new P60 marked ÔReplacementÕ. Once HMRC has processed the FPS subject to any security checks, the overpaid tax will be available to be either set o " against future liabilities or be repaid. 1.19.1 Deliberate under deductions of National Insurance contributions and PAY E In certain circumstances where HMRC identify that an employee has received pay knowing that the employer has deliberately failed to deduct tax, a direction can be made for the employee to pay the underpayment. This will usually be where HMRC cannot recover the PAY E from the employer. Where HMRC also identify that an employee received pay knowing that the primary contributions had not been deducted or paid over, a decision can be made for the employee to pay those contributions. 1.19.2 Arrears of pay for closed years Arrears of pay are earnings paid after the date that an employee should have received them and are usually paid as a lump sum. Arrears of pay are earnings and are treated just as if they had been paid at the right time. Where youÕre