follow on from each other starting on 6 April each year. The Þrst tax week is 6 April to 12 April inclusive, the second tax week is 13 April to 19 April inclusive, and so on. The odd day or days at the end of the last complete tax week in the year, (5 April or in leap years, 4 April and 5 April) are treated as a whole tax week, which is tax week 53. Income Tax months (tax months) Income Tax months are periods following on from each other in an Income Tax year. They start on the sixth of one month and Þnish on the Þfth of the following month. The Þrst Income Tax month is 6 April to 5 May inclusive, the second Income Tax month is 6 May to 5 June inclusive, and so on. Read running payroll for details of relevant dates within a tax year. Pay interval The period of time between one payment and the next. Pay intervals can be: ÔregularÕ, that is every week, month and so on ÔirregularÕ, that is with no Þxed period of time between Ñ for example, an employee is paid after working for 10 days, then again after another 25 days and again after another 40 days Payroll record A payroll record shows PAY E and National Insurance contributions deductions for each of your employees. ItÕs important that you keep payroll records, either in paper form or electronically. Online Þling There are a wide range of PAY E notices, forms and returns that can be sent and received online. Online Þling is a fast, convenient and secure way of exchanging information with HMRC. It cuts down on time, administration and errors, and it means that youÕll get up to date PAY E information, such as updated employee tax codes, much faster. As part of operating PAY E , almost all employers must report their payroll information online using a Full Payment Submission ( FPS ) for each pay period. There are a small number of employers who may be: exempt from submitting this information online unable to submit information online due to exceptional circumstances For more information about the exceptions, read which employers are exempt from online payroll reporting . Read PAY E Online for employers for more information about online Þling. PAY E Online Ñ your Þling options You report your payroll information by submitting an FPS and an Employer Payment Summary ( EPS ). You also use an EPS to tell HMRC if you have not paid any employees in a pay period and have no return to make. These submissions and other returns and reports are sent electronically by your payroll system to HMRC. You can send forms and returns online using: HMRCÕs PAY E for employers online service, choosing either: our free ÔOnline Return and Forms Ñ PAY E Õ product (this is designed for small employers who have up to and including 49 employees and do not send large numbers of forms) third party (commercial) payroll software an agent or payroll bureau who can Þle online on your behalf, using the PAY E for Agents online service PAY E Online Ñ expenses and beneÞts In addition to these Þling options, HMRC provide a service that allows you to send your expenses and beneÞts information, if you have fewer than 500 employees and your software does not do this automatically. For more information on completing your expenses and beneÞts forms, read expenses and beneÞts for employers . PAY E Online Ñ Direct Debit payment When you sign up for the PAY E