be o " set against employer Class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions. Eligible employers may claim the Employment Allowance if the earnings they pay give rise to secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions liability. Service companies have limited eligibility for Employment Allowance Ñ theyÕre not able to claim in respect of deemed payments of employment income. The Employment Allowance is restricted so that single director companies, where the director is the only employee paid above the Secondary Threshold ( ST ) were no longer eligible. YouÕll need to determine your eligibility. For more information, read Employment Allowance on details of eligibility and how to claim. 1.5.1 Apprenticeship Levy Employers have a liability to pay the Apprenticeship Levy. The levy is charged at a rate of 0.5% of an employerÕs annual pay bill. Pay bill is deÞned as earnings which are liable to Class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions, including earnings below the ST . Employers have an annual allowance of £15,000 with which to o " set their levy liability. YouÕll need to determine your levy liability. For more information, read paragraph Ô3.9.4 Apprenticeship LevyÕ . 1.6 Class 1A National Insurance contributions on taxable beneÞts Class 1A National Insurance contributions are due on most taxable beneÞts in kind. Details of when liability for Class 1A National Insurance contributions arises and how theyÕre calculated, reported and paid are included in Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) . You should also read the Expenses and beneÞts for directors and employees Ñ a tax guide: 480 for more information. 1.6.1 Class 1A National Insurance contributions on termination awards and sporting testimonial payments Class 1A National Insurance contributions are due in real time on payments of termination awards above £30,000 and sporting testimonial payments made by an independent Testimonial Committee above £100,000. The Class 1A rate for termination awards and sporting testimonial payments paid in Real Time Information ( RTI ) is the Secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions rate in force on the date of payment. More details can be found in Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) parts 9 and 10. 1.7 How to work out National Insurance contributions and PAY E for various pay intervals Each pay interval section will explain when you can use either the: HMRC tools and calculators Basic PAY E Tools How to manually check your payroll calculations has examples of how to calculate National Insurance contributions using the exact percentage method. Pay interval Ñ weekly You can use the HMRC tools and calculators for this interval. For the weekly pay interval the earnings period is weekly. To work out the National Insurance contributions, use either the: Guidance 2025 to 2026: Employer further guide to PAYE and National Insurance contributions Updated 6 April 2025 Menu Home Money Business tax PAY E CWG2: further guide to PAYE and National Insurance contributions HM Revenue & Customs Print this page Contents Introduction 1. General procedures 2. Special procedures 3. National Insurance only procedures 4. Special types of employee 5. Pay, expenses and beneÞts Appendix 1 Ñ other useful forms and guidance issued by HMRC Help and guidance To work out the National Insurance contributions, use either the: appropriate weekly table exact percentage method When working out PAY E using tax tables A , if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for the tax week that includes the date of payment. If a payday is in week 53, use the table for week 1 again on a non-cumulative basis. If youÕre using a code on a week 1