together all the payments made in one earnings period under one category and report National Insurance contributions data on the total amount. Example 2 Employee has one payroll ID and is paid on the same day for both jobs using one payroll identity Ñ 2025 to 2026 rates. Robert has 2 jobs with a hotel: one as a barman and one as a lifeguard. He earns £200 per week as a barman and £100 per week as a lifeguard. The payments are made under one payroll ID. You must add together all the payments made in one earnings period and calculate National Insurance contributions due on the total amount. Week 4 Ñ assume same weekly pay each week Data Item Description Hotel 79 NI category A 79A Gross earnings for National Insurance contributions year to date £1,200.00 79B Gross earnings for National Insurance contributions pay period £300.00 82 Earnings at the LEL year to date £4 9 2 . 0 0 82A Earnings at LEL to PT year to date £47 6 . 0 0 169 Earnings at PT to UEL year to date £232.00 86A Employer National Insurance contributions this pay period £30.26 86Aa Employer National Insurance contributions year to date £121.04 86B Employee National Insurance contributions this pay period £4 . 6 4 86Ba Employee National Insurance contributions year to date £18.56 49 Aggregated earnings indicator Ye s Employee has 2 di ! erent payroll IDs If an employee receives payments under 2 di " erent payroll identities, you must record and report the pay and employee National Insurance contributions in this pay period for each job in the usual way. On one of the payroll records you must also complete the following steps: # . Add together the earnings from each job (the total is the Ôaggregated earningsÕ). $ . Calculate and record the employer National Insurance contributions due on the aggregated earnings for the pay period. % . Calculate and record the employee National Insurance contributions due on the aggregated earnings, and so Þnd out any additional employee National Insurance contributions due (over and above whatÕs already been recorded for the 2 jobs separately for earnings paid in the same earnings period). & . Pay HMRC all the employee and employer National Insurance contributions due on the aggregated earnings. ' . Update the year-to-date National Insurance contributions Þgures on the payroll record for the employee, to reßect the National Insurance contributions data for the aggregated earnings. ( . Set the aggregated earnings indicator on the payroll record. ) . Report the payroll information to HMRC. YouÕll need to decide under which payroll ID you want to record the data for the aggregated earnings. This reference will be the one under which HMRC will expect payment for both the employer National Insurance contributions and employee National Insurance contributions to be made. For the other job or jobs, update the employeeÕs payroll record: # . Put Ô0.00Õ for the year-to-date National Insurance contributions Þelds. $ . Put Ô0.00Õ for the employer National Insurance contributions in this period. % . Set the Aggregated Earnings Indicator. Example 3 Employee has 2 jobs with same employer, paid using di " erent PAY E references. Dev is aged 23 and has 2 jobs with the county council Ñ one as an apprentice in the planning department and one with the education department. Each department has a separate payroll, and so di " erent PAY E references. With the planning department, Dev earns £3,000 per month and with the education department he earns £250 per month. The National Insurance category letter for both 
