contributions. For PAY E purposes Where a round sum allowance is clearly meant to do no more than reimburse an employee for an expense actually incurred in doing their job, and the expense was incurred only because of the job the expense may be covered by the exemption for paid or reimbursed expenses. Read paragraph Ô5.3.1 Exemption for paid or reimbursed expensesÕ . If so, the expense payment does not need to be reported. Where the payment includes a proÞt element, or the expenses itÕs meant to reimburse are not exempted, include the whole amount in gross pay. 5.7 Travel and subsistence payments The rules on the tax and National Insurance contributions treatment of business travel by employees are explained in Tax and National Insurance contributions for employee travel: 490 . Tax and National Insurance contributions for employee travel: 490 (Chapter 9) , covers employersÕ reporting requirements and explains when you need to operate PAY E on payments for travel and subsistence. Tax and National Insurance contributions for employee travel: 490 (Chapter 6) guide explains the limited circumstances in which you need to account for National Insurance contributions on travel and subsistence payments. 5.8 Relocation allowances or expenses Payments you make to or for an employee who has to move residence as a result of being relocated in the UK by you, should be treated as follows. For PAY E purposes Do not include in gross pay any exempt relocation expenses payments. What constitutes an exempt expense payment is found in appendix 7 of 480: expenses and beneÞts Ñ a tax guide . Include in gross pay any expenses that are not exempt. Amongst other things this will include any payments not listed as eligible is found in 480: expenses and beneÞts Ñ a tax guide. Do not include in gross pay any expenses payments that are eligible for tax relief as listed in 480: expenses and beneÞts Ñ a tax guide. Include in gross pay any relocation expenses you pay that are not eligible for tax relief, if you provide: a relocation package worth more than £8,000 relocation beneÞts Read Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) . If you make any payment towards a relocated employeeÕs council tax ask the employer helpline for advice. 5.9 Allowances or expenses to employees relocating abroad For both PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes Do not include in gross pay any exempt allowances and expenses paid to employees relocating abroad. 5.10 Allowances or expenses to employees working abroad For both PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes Treat payments of expenses to employees working abroad like other expenses payments. In addition, include in gross pay: payments described as compensation for working abroad sums paid as an inducement to work abroad any bonus paid for working abroad If you pay an employee a general allowance to compensate for the higher cost of living abroad, commonly known as a cost of living allowance or cost of living addition, that sum must be included in gross pay. But do not include in gross pay any payment you make towards expenses incurred in providing: an employee with medical treatment outside the UK where the need for the treatment arises while the employee is outside the UK working for you insurance for the employee against the cost of such treatment Phone the employer helpline if you pay the travelling expenses for employees and/or their families returning to the UK on home leave. 5.11 Payments you make when an employee stops working for you The guidance tells you what you should do if you