National Insurance contributions for the pay period until the last payment is made in the same period. Then, you must add the value of the award to the employeeÕs pay that was paid in the same period the award was made and assess the National Insurance contributions due on this revised Þgure. Deduct the employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions from any cash earnings you pay them, update your payroll records and send an FPS to report them to HMRC. Pay the National Insurance contributions due on the revised gross pay Þgure. Most non-cash vouchers provided by third parties, where the direct employer does not arrange or facilitate the provision, are excluded from Class 1 National Insurance contributions. TheyÕre liable for Class 1A National Insurance contributions which is payable by the third party. For more details, read Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) . However, vouchers provided by third parties in connection with the provision of readily convertible assets ( RCAs ) (read section Ô5. Pay, expenses and beneÞtsÕ ) always attract Class 1 liability and the direct employer is responsible for the National Insurance contributions. Employer pays an employeeÕs tax Ñ National Insurance contributions If, in addition to making an award, you pay all or part of an employeeÕs tax due on that award, the tax paid must also be included in the employeeÕs gross pay when calculating Class 1 National Insurance contributions. This is the case regardless of whether the tax is accounted for through a taxed award scheme. You must include the amount of tax paid in the employeeÕs gross pay at the time the tax is paid over to the accounts o ! ce. Third party pays an employeeÕs tax Ñ National Insurance contributions You should also include tax paid on an employeeÕs behalf by a third party where the tax is in relation to cash payments, cash vouchers or beneÞts in kind subject to Class 1 National Insurance contributions which the third party has provided to your employees. Use the instructions in the following section about calculating, recording, and reporting the National Insurance contributions due on the amount of tax you paid. Where the tax is in relation to beneÞts in kind or non-cash vouchers, which are subject to Class 1A National Insurance contributions, the third party will be responsible for paying Class 1A National Insurance contributions on the amount of tax paid if they have arranged or facilitated the provision of the beneÞt or non-cash voucher. The third party will also have to account for that payment through a taxed award scheme. Calculating, recording and reporting Ñ National Insurance contributions When calculating, recording and reporting National Insurance contributions, include the value of the tax paid on behalf of the employee, whether it was you or someone else who paid it for them, in Ôpay subject to Class 1 National Insurance contributionsÕ on their payroll record and report this to HMRC on an FPS . Do this when the tax is paid to HMRC, even if this is before the employeeÕs main pay is paid in that pay period. You do not have to calculate or report any National Insurance contributions for the pay period until the last payment to that employee is made in the same period. Then, you must add the value of the award to the employeeÕs pay that was paid in the same period the award was made and assess the National Insurance contributions due on this revised Þgure. Deduct the employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions from any cash earnings you pay them, update your payroll