one method for a particular employee in any tax year unless: the employee changes to another payroll which already uses the other method you change your payroll system, for example, from manual to computer 3.4 Employees with more than one job This section describes the rules which govern the payment of National Insurance contributions if an employee has more than one job. 3.4.1 An employee has 2 or more jobs with di ! erent employers and each one pays the employee If an employee has another job or jobs with a di " erent employer or employers, work out National Insurance contributions in the normal way on the earnings you pay the employee. Ignore the payments made to the employee in the other jobs. However, if you carry on business in association with the other employers, you must add together the earnings from each job and work out National Insurance contributions on the total unless itÕs not reasonably practicable to do so. You may be asked to show why it has not been practicable to add together the earnings from each job. For advice on the type of information HMRC use if we review your decision, read paragraph Ô3.4.3 An employee has 2 or more jobs with the same employerÕ . In such cases, you should agree with the other employer how to share out the payment of employerÕs contributions. Employers are considered to be carrying on business in association with each other if: their respective businesses serve a common purpose to a signiÞcant degree, they share such things as accommodation, personnel, equipment or customers You can Þnd more information in the National Insurance Manual. Read aggregation of earnings at NIM10000 onwards. 3.4.2 An employee receives one payment of earnings for separate jobs with di ! erent employers An employee may work for 2 or more employers in separate jobs but only get one payment of earnings. If the employers are: carrying on business in association with each other (read paragraph Ô3.4.1 An employee has 2 or more jobs with di " erent employers and each one pays the employeeÕ ), National Insurance contributions are due from the employer who actually pays the earnings not carrying on business in association with each other, each employer has to pay National Insurance contributions on their share of the payment 3.4.3 An employee has 2 or more jobs with the same employer If an employee has 2 or more jobs with you at the same time, the general rule is that you must add all the earnings together and work out National Insurance contributions on the total. If the earnings from each job are separately calculated, you do not have to add the earnings from the separate jobs together if itÕs not reasonably practicable to do so. For example, this might be if you operate a computerised payroll system which is unable to perform the separate calculation and you would then have to do it manually. In such cases, you may be required to show why it has not been reasonably practicable to add the earnings together from each job. ThereÕs no deÞnition of the phrase Ônot reasonably practicableÕ in National Insurance law. HMRC rely upon the ordinary dictionary meaning and any relevant court decisions. The onus is on you as the employer to show that aggregation is not reasonably practicable. YouÕll need to take into account the costs, resources, and the e " ects on running the business. HMRC consider the following points if we review your decision: is it a fact that your payroll software cannot aggregate earnings is your payroll