been an employer for 3 years or more, telephone 0300 200 3200 a hearing or speech impairment, textphone: 0300 200 3212 Tell HMRC your employer PAY E and Accounts O ! ce references when you contact HMRC. YouÕll Þnd them on correspondence HMRC have sent you. Employer help books and forms Help books and forms are available to download, read payroll forms, tables and helpbooks for employers . Yr laith Gymraeg I lawrlwytho " urßenni a llyfrynnau cymorth Cymraeg, ewch i www.gov.uk/cymraeg sgroliwch i lawr iÕr pennawd ÔTrethÕ a dilynwch y cysylltiadau ÔFfurßenni Cyllid a Thollau EM (CThEF)Õ ac ÔArweiniad a thaßenni gwybodaeth CThEFÕ. Forms and guidance in Braille, large print and audio For details of employer forms and guidance in Braille, large print and audio, contact the Employer order line on Telephone: 0300 123 1074 and ask to speak to the Customer Service Team. Help and support from the Digital Delivery Team For more information about our live and recorded webinars, read HMRC email updates, videos and webinars for employing people . View our video clips . Follow HMRC on X (formerly Twitter) @HMRCgovuk . HMRC Online Customer Forum Our HMRC Online Customer forum is there for you, with help, support and guidance. You can ask questions, see what others are asking and get the answers and top tips you need to support you in running your business. Employer bulletin online Employer bulletins contain information and news for employers. HMRC publish these 6 times a year. Read HMRC Employer Bulletin . Using PAY E online Remember to keep your email address up to date. If you change your email address, update PAY E Online to make sure you continue to receive email alerts when HMRC have issued tax codes and generic notiÞcations. Contacting HMRC about your PAY E scheme If you have a query about your PAY E Scheme, contact HMRC . Tell HMRC your employer PAY E and Accounts O ! ce references when you contact HMRC. YouÕll Þnd them on correspondence HMRC have sent to you. Your rights and obligations The HMRC Charter explains what you can expect from HMRC and what we can expect from you. Services and information Government activity Departments Ne w s Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Back to top Is this page useful? He l p Pr i va c y Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright BeneÞts Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Ye s No Report a problem with this page 
