employment paid for or reimbursed to employees Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No No Type of payment: payments in kind (but not RCAs ) Which can be turned into cash by surrender such as Premium Bonds. Fo r RCAs , read paragraph Ô5.2.6 P11D ListÕ Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E Ye s Ye s Which can be turned into cash only by sale such as furniture, kitchen appliances and holidays. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No, but there may be a liability for Class 1A Ñ read Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) No Type of payment: payments you make to an employee whilst they pursue a claim for damages against a third party for loss of earnings following an accident: Employee must repay you, even if the claim for damages is unsuccessful. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No No Employee not required to pay you. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E Yes, but if the employee later receives damages and repays you, National Insurance contributions can be refunded Ye s Type of payment: pensions Registered pension schemes. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No Ye s Employer Þnanced retirement beneÞts schemes. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No, if the payment satisÞes certain conditions. Ye s Type of payment: personal bill paid for goods and services supplied to employees and club memberships Contract to supply goods and services is between you and the provider. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No, but there may be a liability for Class 1A Ñ read Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) No Contract to supply goods and services is between the employee and the provider, and payment made direct to the provider. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E Ye s No Payment made or reimbursed direct to the employee. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E Ye s Ye s Type of payment: phone calls or rental cost Employer is the subscriber. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No Class 1 liability, but there may be a liability for Class 1A National Insurance contributions Ñ read Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) No Employee is the subscriber but employer meets the cost of calls or rental. The phone used exclusively for business use. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E No No Phone used exclusively for private use. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E Ye s Read paragraph Ô5.2.6 P11D ListÕ Phone used for both business and private use. Include on payroll record for National Insurance contributions Include on payroll record for PAY E Rental: Yes Ñ on the full amount of the rental No Calls: Yes Ñ on the full amount of the costs of private calls. Any amount in respect of business calls, supported by appropriate evidence, can be excluded No Type of payment: premiums for health cover, pensions 
