E purposes If you provide the award you can: Þll in the gross value of the award on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers after the tax year end run payroll if you have registered to payroll beneÞts prior to 6 April for the tax year the award was provided account for the tax by entering into a: taxed award scheme (read paragraph Ô2.6.7 Taxed award schemesÕ ) the value of the award grossed at the basic intermediate (Scottish only) or higher rate of tax PAY E settlement agreement (read section Ô5. Pay, expenses and beneÞtsÕ ) to pay the tax on the value of the award grossed up by reference to the employeeÕs rate of tax If a third party provides the award they can only account for the tax by entering into a taxed award scheme. Promoters who sell incentive schemes or operate them for others cannot account for tax on awards except those made for their own employees. Non-cash awards other than non-cash vouchers Ñ National Insurance contributions Some non-cash awards (other than non-cash vouchers) attract Class 1 National Insurance contributions and others Class 1A National Insurance contributions. Read paragraph Ô5.1 What to include as gross pay on your employeeÕs payroll recordÕ . You, the employer, are liable for any Class 1 National Insurance contributions even if a third party provides the awards to your employees. But, where the award attracts a Class 1A National Insurance liability, the third party is liable unless you arrange or facilitate the provision of the award. They can account for the Class 1A National Insurance contributions by entering into a tax agreement scheme. For more advice, read Part 6 Ñ Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) guide. Employee incentive awards has guidance on the National Insurance contributions to record under the heading ÔNational Insurance contributions on non-cash awards other than non-cash vouchersÕ. Non-cash vouchers Ñ National Insurance contributions Payments made by way of non-cash vouchers, with certain exemptions, attract liability for National Insurance contributions. Unless exempt, a payment which is derived from the employeeÕs employment, made by you or by a third party under arrangement with you, must be included in gross pay and Class 1 National Insurance contributions accounted for in the normal way. That is, you must add the cost to you in providing those non-cash vouchers to any other earnings paid in the earnings period and work out National Insurance contributions on the total. You must report the value of the non-cash voucher and send an FPS to report these Þgures to HMRC at the time the voucher is provided, even if this is before the employeeÕs main pay is paid. Include the amount in the Þelds for both Ôpay subject to Class 1 National Insurance contributionsÕ and ÔbeneÞts on which Class 1 National Insurance contributions are dueÕ on the employeeÕs payroll record, and send an FPS to report these Þgures to HMRC. You do not have to calculate or report any National Insurance contributions for the pay period until the last payment is made in the same period. Then, you must add the value of the award to the employeeÕs pay that was paid in the same period the award was made and assess the National Insurance contributions due on this revised Þgure. Deduct the employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions from any cash earnings you pay them, update your payroll records and send an FPS to report them to HMRC. Pay the National Insurance contributions due on the revised gross pay Þgure. Most non-cash vouchers provided by third parties, where