the amount is subject to PAY E . PAY E is due on 100% of a taxable serious ill-health lump sum paid to a member aged 75 and over. Where a serious ill health lump sum is paid to a member under 75, PAY E is due only on the excess over a memberÕs available allowances that exceeds either or both: a memberÕs available lump sum allowance lump sum and death beneÞt allowance PAY E is due on 100% of a pension commencement excess lump sum. If a stand-alone lump sum is paid to a member PAY E is due on the amount of the lump sum that exceeds the permitted maximum. PAY E is due on 100% of a taxable lump sum death beneÞt paid to the beneÞciary of a deceased member. For National Insurance contributions purposes, do not include in gross pay any lump sum from a registered pension scheme. The Pensions Tax Manual has up-to-date guidance, including recent legislative changes. Employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞt schemes Most lump sum payments made under or out of an employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞts scheme (essentially, an unregistered scheme) should be taxed in full under PAY E . Exceptions and reductions include situations where the value underlying the sums in question was previously taxed, either at the contribution stage or when ÔearmarkedÕ for a speciÞed employee or employees in the scheme. You can Þnd more information about these schemes in the Employment Income Manual and the National Insurance Manual . Read the sections on: employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞts schemes at EIM15000 onwards employment income provided through third parties at EIM45000 onwards lump sums from foreign pension schemes at EIM75550 , where a lump sum payment is made from an employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞts scheme based outside the UK the National Insurance contributions position on payments out of employer-Þnanced retirement beneÞts schemes at NIM02760 onwards Read the guidance on paying a company pension or annuity through your payroll to Þnd out more. 2.2.2 Procedures for employer of either an employee retiring or a deceased employee whose beneÞciary is entitled to a pension Pension to be paid by you as the employer If youÕre to pay the pension to a retiring employee: do not treat the employee as leaving your employment Ñ continue paying them using the existing payroll record give the former employee a retirement statement, showing their previous employment details up to the date of their retirement indicate ÔYesÕ in the occupational pension indicator Þeld on the Þrst and every payment of pension include the annual amount of the occupational pension with the Þrst pension payment do not pro rata it from the start date include the tax code use a di " erent payroll ID for the pension payments and indicate on the FPS that the payroll ID has changed, including details of the previous payroll ID no National Insurance contributions are payable When you start to pay the pension, use the employeeÕs existing tax code on a week 1 or month 1 basis until you hear from HMRC. If HMRC have not contacted you by 5 April, (or the employee retires so late in the tax year that the Þrst pension payment is made after 5 April), carry forward the existing tax code to the new tax year but use it on a cumulative basis. If youÕre paying the pension to a beneÞciary of a deceased employee, follow the procedures under ÔPension recipient does not give you form P45Õ in paragraph Ô2.2.4 Procedures for other pension and annuity payersÕ . Pension to be paid by the trustees of a pension fund If an employee