is due. After the tax year has ended, the correction must be done by submitting a Þnal revised FPS . If you have reported incorrect information on an EPS , you must submit another EPS to report the correct total year to date Þgures for all recovered payments within that tax ye a r. For more information and guidance, read payroll: annual reporting and tasks . 2. Special procedures 2.1 Pension contributions All employers must now provide a workplace (occupational) pension scheme for their employees. The Pensions RegulatorÕs guidance on automatic enrolment for employers tells you what you need to do and when to do it. The RegulatorÕs guidance also gives information about additional criteria for non UK pension schemes . If you choose to establish a new auto-enrolment pension scheme in the UK for your employees, it must be registered with HMRC before tax relief can be given. Only contributions made after the scheme is registered can be given tax relief. Read more about applying to register a pension scheme . Tax relief for employee contributions to registered pension schemes is given by either the: Ônet payÕ Ñ read PTM044230 - Contributions: tax relief for members: methods: net pay for details of the arrangement where you deduct employeesÕ contributions from gross pay before working out their tax Ôrelief at sourceÕ Ñ read PTM044220 - Contributions: tax relief for members: methods: relief at source for details of the method where you deduct employeeÕs contributions from net pay Ñ the scheme then claims the tax relief from HMRC Ñ the Pensions Regulator provides guidance on which tax relief method may be best for your employees You can use the net pay arrangement if: the pension scheme youÕve established is registered by HMRC as an occupational pension scheme an existing group pension scheme youÕve chosen as your pension provider is registered by HMRC as an occupational pension scheme and the scheme will not reclaim relief from HMRC by Ôrelief at sourceÕ you use the net pay arrangement in respect of all of your employees who pay contributions to the scheme that are entitled to relief In all other circumstances you must not use the net pay arrangement. You can only give your employees tax relief on pension contributions (including additional voluntary contributions) if the scheme is registered with HMRC. If you reduce their taxable pay in respect of contributions to a pension scheme that is not registered you may be liable for any tax that you have failed to deduct from their pay. Where you deduct contributions under the net pay arrangement, remember that an employee is entitled only to tax relief, and not relief from National Insurance contributions. When completing your payroll records for: PAY E purposes deduct the pension contributions from the employeeÕs gross pay National Insurance contributions purposes do not deduct the pension contributions from the employeeÕs gross pay Take the following action for each employee whoÕs in the scheme. # . Deduct the total employee pension contributions paid into the scheme in the tax year to date from the employeeÕs gross pay Þgure. You can only deduct contributions which are paid after the pension scheme is registered. $ . If pension contributions have been paid in a previous tax year, send HMRC a list showing the names of the employees and the contributions each employee has paid. Occupational pension scheme contributions deducted from employeesÕ pay must be with the pension scheme by day 19 of the following month when paying by cheque and day 22 when paid electronically. Failure to meet this deadline could lead to civil proceedings