to securities options, restricted securities and convertible securities, employees may enter into an agreement or election with the employer to meet some or all of the liability for employerÕs National Insurance contributions. In these circumstances employerÕs National Insurance contributions met by the employee is a deductible amount for Income Tax purposes but is not deductible in calculating the National Insurance contributions due. 5.15.2 Deducting PAY E from non-cash payments Recover from the employee the PAY E due on the non-cash payment by deducting it in both of the following ways: from any net wages, salaries, commission, fees and so on paid at the same time as non-cash payment, even if this reduces the employeeÕs pay to nil from any later payments made in that pay period until the full amount of PAY E due on the non-cash payment has been recovered Any PAY E which you do not recover from the employee, must be made good by the employee within 90 days (6 July) of the end of the tax year in which the non-cash payment was received. If the employee does not do this, then you must show the unrecovered amount as further remuneration on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers . 5.15.3 Deducting National Insurance contributions from certain non-cash payment Where you make non-cash payments of earnings to an employee or an ex-employee you have the right to recover an employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions from subsequent cash payments of earnings in the same tax year where an under-deduction occurred because there were not enough cash earnings. When you recover such underpayments of National Insurance contributions: you can only recover the employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions in the same tax year from any further cash payments of earnings to the employee the amount recovered cannot exceed the contribution due on that further payment If non-cash payments of earnings are made and you could not deduct the employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions because there were not enough cash earnings, if the payment: has been made by an intermediary comprises a beneÞcial interest in shares comprises of securities or an interest in securities You have until the end of the tax year, following the one in which the non-cash payments of earnings were made, to recover the employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions. ThereÕs no limit on the amount that you can recover from subsequent earnings to recover the under-deduction. Intermediary is deÞned as either a person: acting on behalf of the employer and at the expense of the employer connected with them, or trustees holding property for any person, or class of persons which includes, the employee The rules do not a " ect your responsibility to account for National Insurance contributions at the time payment is made. 5.15.4 Paying PAY E and National Insurance contributions to HMRC on non-cash payments PAY E payments are due by the 19th of the month following the end of the tax month or quarter to which it relates (or the 22nd if paying electronically). You can pay quarterly if you estimate over the full tax year that your total payment will be, on average, less than £1,500 per month. You must pay HMRC all PAY E and National Insurance contributions due, including that due on any non-cash payments made in that tax month or quarter, even if the employee did not have su ! cient cash, to allow all the deductions to be made in that pay period. 5.15.5 Recording a non-cash payment Regardless of whether or not the employer has borne the PAY E and employeeÕs