paid to HMRC, even if this is before the employeeÕs main pay is paid in that pay period. You do not have to calculate or report any National Insurance contributions for the pay period until the last payment to that employee is made in the same period. Then, you must add the value of the award to the employeeÕs pay that was paid in the same period the award was made and assess the National Insurance contributions due on this revised Þgure. Deduct the employeeÕs share of National Insurance contributions from any cash earnings you pay them, update your payroll records and send an FPS to report them to HMRC. Pay the National Insurance contributions due on the revised gross pay Þgure. PAY E settlement agreements Ñ National Insurance contributions ItÕs acceptable for a PAY E settlement agreement to include non-cash voucher awards you give to your employees as long as theyÕre ÔminorÕ or ÔirregularÕ. In that event Class 1B National Insurance contributions rather than Class 1 or Class 1A National Insurance contributions will be due. If you have such an agreement and are in any doubt as to whether youÕre complying with the terms of it, get in touch with HMRC. For more information about liability for National Insurance contributions on items included in PAY E settlement agreements, read section Ô5. Pay, expenses and beneÞtsÕ . Apportionment Ñ National Insurance contributions If an award is made for the beneÞt of more than one employee, read paragraph Ô2.6.5 Apportioning the value of vouchers between employees for National Insurance contributions purposesÕ for details of how to apportion the award between those employees for National Insurance contributions purposes. 2.6.3 Valuing cash vouchers for National Insurance contributions purposes Cash vouchers are vouchers that can be exchanged for an amount of money which is not much less than the expense the employer or third party incurs in providing them. The amount to include in gross pay is the surrender value of the voucher. 2.6.4 Valuing non-cash vouchers for National Insurance contributions purposes The ÔvalueÕ of a non-cash voucher is, apart from 2 exceptions, the cost to you in providing it. If a third party is providing it, then itÕs the cost to that third party. The cost in providing a non-cash voucher is not normally the face value unless, exceptionally, the cost in providing it and its face value are the same. The exceptions are luncheon vouchers and childcare vouchers for which the ÔvalueÕ is the face value of the voucher. The ÔcostÕ in providing a non-cash voucher includes the cost of: buying the goods or providing the services selecting and testing those goods or services storing, distributing and installing the goods or services servicing and other Ôafter salesÕ expenses As such, a non-cash voucher is valued for National Insurance contributions purposes in the same way as for tax. 2.6.5 Apportioning the value of vouchers between employees for National Insurance contributions purposes If you provide a voucher which attracts a National Insurance contributions liability for the beneÞt of more than one employee, the value of the voucher must be apportioned between those employees. You must include in each employeeÕs gross pay the proportionate amount of the total value each employee enjoys. If youÕre unable to determine the correct proportionate amounts, you must split the total value equally and include that amount in each employeeÕs gross pay. Example 1 An employer buys a retail voucher at a cost of £300. They provide the voucher to 3 employees with the intention that employee: A will receive 50% of the voucherÕs value B will receive 30% C 
