to items which are: minor given by you on an irregular basis Where itÕs impracticable for you to apply PAY E to them or include them on form P11D PAY E settlement agreements do not apply, for example, to wages and salaries To Þnd out more, read PAY E settlement agreements . More information about Class 1B National Insurance contributions Class 1B National Insurance contributions are payable on PAY E settlement agreements at the same time as tax, using the same payment slip. Class 1B National Insurance contributions are payable at the appropriate secondary employerÕs percentage rate on the total value of: all items covered by the PAY E settlement agreement which would give rise to a Class 1 or Class 1A National Insurance contributions liability the tax payable by the employer under the PAY E settlement agreement To Þnd out more, read PAY E settlement agreements . If one of your employees fails to qualify for a Statutory Payment ( SSP , SMP , SA P , ShP P , SPBP or SNCP ) because their average weekly earnings are too low, youÕll need to reassess their average weekly earnings taking account of items covered by a PAY E settlement agreement which would have given rise to a Class 1 National Insurance contributions liability. For more information on calculating an employeeÕs average weekly earnings for Statutory Payments purposes, read statutory pay . 5.4.1 National Insurance contributions on motoring expenses payments ThereÕs a statutory amount which can be paid to employees who use their own cars, vans, motorcycles or cycles for business travel without incurring a National Insurance contributions liability. If you pay more than the statutory National Insurance contributions free amount, the excess amount must be added to any other earnings the employee receives in the earnings period in which you make the motoring expense payment. Class 1 National Insurance contributions are then calculated on the employeeÕs total earnings. To work out whether National Insurance contributions are due, you must multiply the amount of business miles travelled by the statutory mileage rate and compare that Þgure to the amount that you have paid. For privately owned cars and vans, the rate to use is the one which applies to the Þrst 10,000 business miles. This rate is shown in the table and must be used irrespective of the number of business miles actually travelled. In working out whether National Insurance contributions are due, you must include in the calculation of the National Insurance contributions free amount all business miles travelled, even if you do not pay the employee for all of his business mileage. For employees who use their own motorcycles and cycles for business travel, or who carry passengers, use the appropriate rates in the table. The rules for paying the new passenger rate and what counts as business travel are the same for both tax and National Insurance contributions. More guidance on these rules for National Insurance contributions, including examples of how National Insurance contributions are calculated on motoring expenses payments, can be found within Tax and National Insurance contributions for employee travel: 490 . 5.4.2 Taxation of mileage expenses payments Read paragraph Ô5.4.1 National Insurance contributions on motoring expenses paymentsÕ for the National Insurance contributions treatment of motoring expenses payments and passenger payments. You can pay up to an Ôapproved amountÕ tax-free to employees using their own vehicles for business travel. This is calculated as follows: Kind of vehicle Rate Car or van 45 pence per mile for the Þrst 10,000 business miles 25 pence per mile after that Mo t o rc y c l