message through the FPS submission route telling you the correct National Insurance number. If you do not receive a message from HMRC telling you the correct National Insurance number, continue to leave the National Insurance number Þeld blank for that employee until notiÞed. 1.2.3 When the National Insurance number used by HMRC di ! ers from the one you already hold If the National Insurance number used by HMRC for an employee di " ers from the one you already hold, use the National Insurance number given to you by HMRC. If your employee disputes this is the correct National Insurance number, advise them to contact HMRC. 1.2.4 National Insurance number and identity The National Insurance number card or letter should not be accepted by anyone as proof of identity. The fact that a person has a National Insurance number does not mean that the person has the right to work or live in the UK. ItÕs not a passport to employment. For more information on a personÕs right to work in the UK read: checks employers can make on job applicants checking a job applicantÕs right to work 1.3 When to work out National Insurance contributions and PAY E As a general rule, both National Insurance contributions and PAY E are operated when a payment of earnings is made to an employee. For PAY E purposes If the employee is not a director, operate PAY E on the earlier of when: you actually make the payment the employee is entitled to be paid, even if the pay is not drawn until later If the employee is a director, operate PAY E on the earlier of when: you actually make the payment the director becomes entitled to be paid the payment is credited in the company accounts or records, even if the: director cannot draw the money straightaway because thereÕs a block on the right to payment credit is not speciÞcally in an account in the directorÕs name the remuneration is Þxed or determined if the amount: for a particular accounting period is determined before the end of that period, take the date as being when the period ends is determined after the period ends, take the date as being when the amount is determined For National Insurance contributions purposes The point of payment is that at which the earnings are placed unreservedly at the disposal of the employee. If the employee is a director, read CA44: National Insurance for company directors . Phone the employer helpline for advice on what to do for PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes. Late notiÞcation of marginal items of pay Occasionally, payroll departments do not get to know about certain marginal items of pay, for example, expenses, until sometime after they have been paid or treated as paid. They include the item in a later earnings period because itÕs time-consuming to have to revisit the correct earnings period and recalculate the National Insurance contributions due. HMRC will allow you to use a later earnings period when calculating the National Insurance contributions due, even on the rare occasions when such payments are notiÞed late and the most convenient earnings period falls within the next tax year. But the marginal item of pay must be included in the gross pay for the purposes of calculating National Insurance contributions without any undue delay. Marginal items of pay included in a later earnings period do not have to be reported to HMRC when paid. They should be reported when theyÕre included in the later earnings period. You must allocate marginal items of pay to the correct 
