of expenses payments for National Insurance contributions purposes If you pay an employee expenses, you must include them in gross pay unless theyÕre exempted from charge under a speciÞc exemption, read paragraph Ô5.3.1 Exemption for paid or reimbursed expensesÕ . If you pay an employee expenses for using a privately owned vehicle for business purposes, there are special rules for working out whether you need to include these payments in gross pay, read paragraph Ô5.4.1 National Insurance contributions on motoring expenses paymentsÕ . Evidence To prove that theyÕre expenses actually incurred by employees in carrying out their work you must be able to provide evidence of the actual business expense. The type of evidence will depend on the item of business expenditure. For example, evidence could include: a log of business phone calls or visits credit card bills re c e i p t s work diaries showing the employeeÕs engagements a representative survey of the costs involved (thatÕs a scale rate) This is not a complete list and any evidence will be considered. Using a scale rate Payments based on a scale rate, which covers the costs likely to be incurred, should not be included in gross pay. For scale rate payments to be excluded from gross pay the scheme you operate must satisfy all the following conditions: the scheme must not have an overall proÞt element payments must be based on an accurate survey of the costs involved the scheme must allow for a movement in prices payments must be reasonable in relation to the employment involved the employee must make a claim for each payment made Details of the scheme and its provisions must be available for inspection. National Insurance contributions will be charged on all payments made under the scheme if the scheme is not supported by written evidence or is not considered sound. 5.5.1 Payments towards additional household costs incurred by employees who work from home For both PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes Do not include in gross pay any payments made in respect of reasonable additional household expenses incurred by employees in carrying out duties of their employment at home. You may pay up to £6 per week (£26 per month) without supporting evidence of the costs. If you choose to pay more, you must retain supporting evidence to show that the payment is wholly in respect of additional household expenses incurred by the employee in carrying out the duties at home. 5.6 Round sum allowances If you pay a round sum allowance to an employee, you must treat the payment as follows. For National Insurance contributions purposes If you cannot identify the business expense include the whole allowance Ñ whether or not an expense is actually incurred Ñ in gross pay. If the expense is wholly deductible for tax purposes it may be covered by the expenses exemption. Read paragraph Ô5.3.1 Exemption for paid or reimbursed expensesÕ . Payments which are exempted from tax are also not liable for National Insurance contributions. For PAY E purposes Where a round sum allowance is clearly meant to do no more than reimburse an employee for an expense actually incurred in doing their job, and the expense was incurred only because of the job the expense may be covered by the exemption for paid or reimbursed expenses. Read paragraph Ô5.3.1 Exemption for paid or reimbursed expensesÕ . If so, the expense payment does not need to be reported. Where the payment includes a proÞt element, or the expenses itÕs meant to reimburse are not exempted, include the whole amount in gross pay. 5.7 Travel