how to get information to allow you to use and run a computerised payroll. Commercially produced programs HMRC work closely with commercial software developers and provide free National Insurance guides to help them create products and services suitable for use with HMRCÕs online service . HMRC will accept forms and returns sent using any of the commercial software products that are recognised by HMRC . Privately produced programs If you design and operate your own computer program, HMRC provide Real Time Information support to help you keep computerised payroll systems up to date with changing legislation. Substitute forms P60, Ô EOY certiÞcateÕ Substitute P60Õs that you produce will not need to be submitted to HMRC for formal approval. Our guidance RD1: SpeciÞcations for P60 substitutes , gives guidelines to anyone producing a new substitute P60 design or amending an existing design. HMRC revise the guidance annually to publish any changes for the current tax year. Form P45 for use on computer printers HMRC supply 5 versions of form P45 for computer use: P45 (Manual): for manual completion P45 (Continuous): suitable for completion by impact printer P45 (Continuous)(E): suitable for completion by impact printer P45 (Laser-Continuous): suitable for completion by high-speed laser printers P45 (Laser-Sheet): suitable for completion by cut-sheet laser printers If you are exempt from online Þling you can get these forms from the Employer order line . 1. General procedures 1.1 WhoÕs an ÔemployeeÕ for the purposes of PAY E and Class 1 National Insurance contributions In this guide, ÔemployeeÕ means anyone whoÕs gainfully employed in the UK and is: engaged under a Ôcontract of serviceÕ, where you pay somebody to work for you, and the arrangement will normally amount to either, a contract of service (employment) or a contract for services (self-employment) Ñ almost everyone who works for an employer will be employed under a contract of service, including full-time, part-time, casual or temporary employment, a contract need not be written, but can be a verbal or implied working agreement an o ! ce holder with earnings chargeable to tax Ñ an o ! ce holder is someone appointed to hold a titled o ! ce including an elective o ! ce, for example, a company director engaged through an agency or some other third party Ñ for more information, read paragraph Ô4.2 Workers supplied by agenciesÕ For PAY E purposes For most PAY E purposes, ÔemployeeÕ includes pension recipients and others who get PAY E income (for example, ex-employees). For most PAY E purposes, ÔemployerÕ includes agencies, pension-payers and others who make payments of PAY E income. For National Insurance contributions purposes In addition to the previous examples, if certain conditions are met, a person in any of the following occupations is treated as being an employee. The conditions are set out in the Social Security (Categorisation of Earners) Regulations 1978, as amended. The occupations are: o ! ce cleaners ministers of religion people employed by their husband or wife or civil partner for the purpose of his or her employment How to check someoneÕs employment status If youÕre not sure if someone is an ÔemployeeÕ or if youÕre an ÔemployerÕ for PAY E or National Insurance contributions purposes you can: use check employment status for tax and HMRC tools and calculators phone the employer helpline 1.2 National Insurance numbers 1.2.1 What a National Insurance number is A National Insurance number is the unique reference number used by HMRC and the DW P (Department for Communities (DfC) in Northern Ireland) to identify an individualÕs National Insurance contributions record. It makes sure that contributions paid by, and 
