of his or her employment How to check someoneÕs employment status If youÕre not sure if someone is an ÔemployeeÕ or if youÕre an ÔemployerÕ for PAY E or National Insurance contributions purposes you can: use check employment status for tax and HMRC tools and calculators phone the employer helpline 1.2 National Insurance numbers 1.2.1 What a National Insurance number is A National Insurance number is the unique reference number used by HMRC and the DW P (Department for Communities (DfC) in Northern Ireland) to identify an individualÕs National Insurance contributions record. It makes sure that contributions paid by, and credited to, an individual are put on the right record so that whenever a claim to beneÞt is made, the correct amount can be paid. You must record an employeeÕs National Insurance number on payroll records. ItÕs important that you ask employees for their National Insurance number as soon as possible after they start working for you. Your employees are required by law to give their National Insurance number to you, although they can start work before providing the number. For each employee, you must: record their date of birth, gender and address including postcode arrange for them to let you know of any change of name, gender or address Your employee remains accountable for their own records, but receiving this information from you will help HMRC keep records up to date. Temporary National Insurance numbers Do not use temporary National Insurance numbers on employer returns. In all cases you should try to get the National Insurance number (read paragraph Ô1.2.4 National Insurance number and identityÕ) and enter it on your payroll record. If youÕre unable to get the National Insurance number you must: leave the National Insurance number Þeld blank enter the: date of birth and gender address including postcode 1.2.2 How to get an employeeÕs National Insurance number To Þnd out how to get an employeeÕs National Insurance number, or if you want to check an employeeÕs National Insurance number before including it on the employeeÕs payroll record, read using Basic PAY E tools to check a National Insurance number . Employees can get conÞrmation of their National Insurance number from their personal tax account, HMRC App, or by contacting HMRC. If your new employee does not know their National Insurance number and youÕve not yet included them on an FPS , you should ask them if they have an old payslip or form P60, youÕll usually be able to Þnd it there. If you cannot get a National Insurance number for a new employee, you must: still send their details on the Þrst FPS that includes a payment to them leave the National Insurance number Þeld blank for that employee not use an incorrect or ÔdummyÕ National Insurance number When you submit the FPS , HMRC will try to match the employeeÕs details to their National Insurance number. Where HMRC are able to match the employeeÕs National Insurance number with the details you provided, youÕll get a message through the FPS submission route telling you the correct National Insurance number. If you do not receive a message from HMRC telling you the correct National Insurance number, continue to leave the National Insurance number Þeld blank for that employee until notiÞed. 1.2.3 When the National Insurance number used by HMRC di ! ers from the one you already hold If the National Insurance number used by HMRC for an employee di " ers from the one you already hold, use the National Insurance number given to you by HMRC. If your employee disputes this is the correct National