in the occupational pension indicator Þeld on the Þrst and every payment of pension include the annual amount of the occupational pension with the Þrst pension payment, do not pro rata it from the start date include the tax code include the payroll ID, if you want to use one use the code from the P45 on a week 1 or month 1 basis until you hear from HMRC if HMRC have not contacted you by 5 April (or the Þrst pension payment is to be made after 5 April), carry forward the existing code to the new tax year but use it on a cumulative basis after the pension or annuity has started and after you have received a code from HMRC you must destroy the P45 Pension recipient does not give you form P45 If a pension recipient does not give you a form P45: set up a new payroll record for them include the date the pension started with the Þrst pension payment indicate ÔYesÕ in the occupational pension indicator Þeld on the Þrst and every payment of pension include the annual amount of the occupational pension with the Þrst pension payment, do not pro rata it from the start date include the tax code Ñ unless youÕre told to use a new tax code by HMRC, use the emergency tax code on a week 1 or month 1 basis include the payroll ID, if you want to use one Recipient is a non-individual Where such payments are made to third parties or non-individuals, such as personal representative, trustee in bankruptcy or a body corporate, you must submit the following information under real time information: # . Operate code BR . $ . Leave the National Insurance number Þeld blank. % . Enter ÔmaleÕ as the gender. & . Enter ÔRPÕ as the forename. ' . Enter the name of the recipient body as the surname. ( . Enter the address of the recipient body. ) . Indicate ÔYesÕ in the payment to a non-individual indicator Þeld. * . Do not enter a start date for the new recipient. Term certain pensions and annuities Where such payments are made to a named beneÞciary or beneÞciary you must follow the usual procedures for new pensions and annuities. Pensions and annuities paid from or in respect of registered pension schemes are PAY E pension income under the PAY E system. If such pensions or annuities are for a Ôterm certainÕ following the death of the pension recipient or annuitant or to a named beneÞciary, the continuing pension and annuity instalments may not be taxable. Report PAY E pension income under real time information. Where such payments are made to a named beneÞciary or beneÞciary you must follow the usual procedures for new pensions and annuities. Where such payments are made to third parties or non-individuals, such as personal representative, trustee in bankruptcy, body corporate you must submit the following information under real time information: # . Operate code BR . $ . Leave the National Insurance number Þeld blank. % . Enter ÔmaleÕ as the gender. & . Enter ÔRPÕ as the forename. ' . Enter the name of the recipient body as the surname. ( . Enter the address of the recipient body. ) . Indicate ÔYesÕ in the payment to a non-individual indicator Þeld. * . Do not enter a start date for the new recipient. 2.2.5 Trivial commutation payments and winding up lump sums relating to registered pension schemes Whether a trivial commutation payment or a winding up lump sum is taxable in whole or in