to show why it has not been reasonably practicable to add the earnings together from each job. ThereÕs no deÞnition of the phrase Ônot reasonably practicableÕ in National Insurance law. HMRC rely upon the ordinary dictionary meaning and any relevant court decisions. The onus is on you as the employer to show that aggregation is not reasonably practicable. YouÕll need to take into account the costs, resources, and the e " ects on running the business. HMRC consider the following points if we review your decision: is it a fact that your payroll software cannot aggregate earnings is your payroll software provided by an external supplier or provided by an internal IT section does the provider of an outside IT package give an update service that includes aggregation if the work has to be carried out manually, what are the costs how many employees are potentially a " ected has there been a material change in the labour force since the decision not to aggregate was taken If you would like more detailed information on the Ônot reasonably practicableÕ test, re f e r t o section NIM10009 of the National Insurance Manual . 3.5 Working out and recording National Insurance contributions when earnings from separate jobs are added together If youÕre required to aggregate the earnings for separate jobs when working out National Insurance contributions, read Ôparagraph 3.5.1 Reporting National Insurance contributions when earnings from separate jobs are added togetherÕ for guidance on how to calculate and report aggregation in real time. For more information, read what to do if your employee has more than 1 job . The rate of employer Class 1 secondary contributions is 0% for: employees under the age of 21 up to the ! UST apprentices under the age of 25 up to the ! AU S T employers of armed forces veterans up to the ! VUST employees working in the Freeport tax site up to the ! FUST employees working in the Investment Zone tax site up to the IZUST Class 1 secondary contributions continue to be payable at the standard rate on all earnings above the relevant upper secondary threshold above. The current way in which National Insurance contributions is assessed remains unchanged, thereÕs no change to the principles of aggregation. Employers should make sure they hold the employeeÕs correct date of birth and use the correct category letter, read paragraph Ô3.9.1 National Insurance contributions Ñ abolition of secondary contributions for those under 21 years of ageÕ . 3.5.1 Reporting National Insurance contributions when earnings from separate jobs are added together National Insurance contributions must be worked out on the total earnings using the exact percentage method rather than the contribution tables. This is because the calculation of National Insurance contributions in each table takes into account that portion of an employeeÕs earnings which fall below the PT . This portion of earnings can only be disregarded once. The earnings period to be used is the shortest. The examples in this section explain what you need to do. The examples use the rates and limits applicable to the 2025 to 2026 tax year. National Insurance contributions are worked out using the exact percentage method. For more information on using the exact percentage method, read how to manually check your payroll calculations . The order in which to calculate National Insurance contributions is Z, M or H, J, B, A and C. Category M (under 21) and H (apprentice under 25) are treated with the same priority. If you feel that this section applies to you, and you need more information or