of frequently asked questions, read what to do if an employee changes gender . 1.18 Mistake in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted For guidance about when and how to tell HMRC about correcting errors, read Þx problems with running payroll . 1.18.1 Mistake in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted during the tax year If, during the tax year, you discover that a mistake has been made in the amount of National Insurance contributions or PAY E deducted, take the following action, if: you have deducted too much National Insurance contributions or PAY E tax from your employee, simply refund the extra amount on their next payday your employee paid too little National Insurance contributions or PAY E tax you must pay the underpayment to HMRC as soon as you know you have paid too little However, there are special rules which allow you to recover underpayments of National Insurance contributions from your employees where the error was made in good faith. This is done by making extra deductions from any later earnings you pay that employee. There are 2 conditions that apply to these recoveries relating to the amount and the time in which you can recover. The Þrst condition is that the extra deduction you make from further payments of earnings can be no greater than the employeeÕs contribution due on that further payment of earnings. The second condition is that the extra deduction can be made during the remainder of the tax year in which the error occurred and the whole of the following tax year. If at the end of the second tax year you have been unable to recover the full amount under deducted, then you may not recover any more from the employee and you must bear the cost of the loss yourself. If the employee leaves your employment after the error occurred you must bear the cost of the loss yourself. Example 1 An employee is due to pay primary contributions of £20 on their next payment of earnings. The maximum extra deduction that can be made is £20, making a total deduction on those earnings of £40. Example 2 An error occurred and was made in good faith on 30 June 2025. The employer may make extra deductions from any earnings paid to the employee during the period 1 July 2025 to 5 April 2027 until the underpayment is recovered. Correcting payroll reporting errors Ñ current tax year You must send an FPS every time you pay your employees to let HMRC know who has been paid, how much they have been paid and the deductions made for PAY E tax and National Insurance contributions. If you have made a mistake in the current tax year or you discover that information you have already reported is incorrect, the action you need to take depends on when you discover the error. If you need to correct an error in a previous tax year, read Þx problems with running payroll . If you discover the error before you submit your next FPS You can either: correct the error by using revised year-to-date Þgures on your next regular FPS Ñ this is often the easiest way to handle the correction show the adjustment by submitting an additional FPS for the pay period for the employees the error relates to how you report a correction may depend on the payroll software you use For PAY E purposes You should try to recover the underpaid tax by making extra deductions from any later earnings you pay that employee