must be included in gross pay. But do not include in gross pay any payment you make towards expenses incurred in providing: an employee with medical treatment outside the UK where the need for the treatment arises while the employee is outside the UK working for you insurance for the employee against the cost of such treatment Phone the employer helpline if you pay the travelling expenses for employees and/or their families returning to the UK on home leave. 5.11 Payments you make when an employee stops working for you The guidance tells you what you should do if you make additional one-o " payments such as on redundancy or retirement. Guidance on ÔstandardÕ payments such as salary, wages, SMP , SA P , SPP , ShP P and so on is given at section Ô2. Special proceduresÕ . 5.11.1 Type of payment The treatment of a payment made when an employee stops working for you varies according to the type of payment. This is true for both PAY E and National Insurance contributions purposes. A single payment is often made up of more than one element. For example, one payment might cover: redundancy pay accrued holiday pay a payment in lieu of notice Each element must be considered separately. First decide the appropriate tax and National Insurance contributions rules to apply to each element. Then add these separate results together. For PAY E purposes Most payments fall into one of the following 3 categories, the payments are: taxable in full taxable only on amounts over £30,000, if: thereÕs more than one sum in this category, you must total all such payments before applying the £30,000 limit payments are made by instalments, the exemption does not just apply to the year in which the termination takes place Ñ any unused balance after setting o " both cash payments and non-cash beneÞts may be carried forward to set against payments in a later year completely tax-free For National Insurance contributions purposes Payments are either included or not included in gross pay. 5.11.2 Action to take when you make such payments The list under paragraph Ô5.1 What to include as gross pay on your employeeÕs payroll recordÕ lists the most common elements included in a leaving payment, and tells you what the appropriate tax and National Insurance contributions treatments are. If you need more information about how to value non-cash beneÞts, read Expenses and beneÞts for directors and employees Ñ a tax guide: 480 . Contact HMRC for guidance on calculating the taxable amount if: you intend to provide anything other than cash when an employee leaves Ñ for example, an asset (such as a car) or the use of an asset any payment (or part payment) is to be paid by a third party, for example, another employer Payment made under terms and conditions of employment Ñ unless the payment is listed separately later in the following paragraphs ÔTerms or conditionsÕ means anything governing the employment relationship so, as well as any written contact, verbal terms, handbooks and agreements may well be included. For example: compensation for loss of o ! ce provided for under terms or conditions accrued pay due pay during a period of notice If itÕs your normal practice to make a payment on termination, it should be treated in the same way as one made under terms or conditions (even if thereÕs no legal obligation to pay it). Redundancy payments are dealt with at table Ô7. Payments for redundancyÕ . 1. Payments made in lieu of notice Paid under a legal entitlement (or paid automatically) and paid