pay using week 17. You must report the payment on the FPS in the week you make the payment. For the ÔNumber of earnings periods covered by the paymentÕ on your FPS , in this example, you would enter Ô3Õ. For employees with a week 1 or month 1 tax code Where PAY E is being worked out on a week 1 or month 1 basis, split the pay equally between the full weeks of the holiday and work out and record PAY E on each amount separately for each week. You should report the payment on an FPS in the week that you make the payment. The total amount of PAY E due for these weeks is the amount you should deduct from the total holiday pay. For employees leaving employment after their holiday If your employee will be leaving or retiring straight after their holiday, then work out the PAY E tax due on their holiday pay using the free pay for the week in which you pay it to them. You should report the payment on an FPS in the week that you make the payment. 2.7.5 Working out National Insurance contributions on holiday pay If weekly paid employees receive a payment which covers more than one week and it is, or includes, holiday pay, you can work out National Insurance contributions using one of two methods. The Þrst method (method A) involves splitting the sum up and working out National Insurance contributions on the payment for each week separately. An example of this would be that on the last payday before their holiday, you pay employees their ordinary weekly wage plus 2 weeksÕ holiday pay. You will work out National Insurance contributions on each weekÕs pay separately and record them in the corresponding weeks on the employeeÕs payroll record. The second method (method B) involves working out the National Insurance contributions on the whole sum based on the number of weeks it represents. Round up parts of a week. An example of this would be that on the last payday before their holiday, you pay employees their ordinary weekly wage plus 2 weeksÕ holiday pay. National Insurance tables used to work out National Insurance contributions Work out National Insurance contributions on a 3 week basis by dividing the total earnings on which National Insurance contributions are payable by 3, looking up this Þgure in the appropriate weekly table and multiplying the National Insurance contributions shown in the table by 3. Exact percentage method used to work out National Insurance contributions Any of the following methods for calculating National Insurance contributions is acceptable: apply the 3 weekly lower and UEL and primary, secondary and ! UST Õs ! to the total payment and round the resulting National Insurance contributions Þgures to the nearest penny, rounding down exact amounts of £0.005, in the normal way divide the total payment by 3 to establish the average weekly earnings, work out the weekly National Insurance contributions Þgures, round to the nearest penny, rounding down exact amounts of £0.005, then multiply the answers by 3 to get the total National Insurance contributions due divide the total payment by 3 to establish the average weekly earnings, work out the weekly National Insurance contributions Þgures, multiply the answers by 3, then round to the nearest penny, rounding down exact amounts of £0.005, to get the total National Insurance contributions due Method A This can also be used: for employees who are paid at intervals which are multiples of a week, for example, fortnightly or 4 weekly, but if you use the exact percentage