short-term business visits to the UK Ñ Treaty relief Where an employee is likely to qualify for protection from UK Income Tax under the Income from Employment Article of a Double Taxation Convention (Ôdependant personal servicesÕ in older conventions) it may be possible to relax the strict PAY E requirements that arise. Certain information will need to be provided and the criteria in the Income from Employment provision met. You should check the relevant Convention, but usually UK tax will not be paid if all of the following conditions are met: the employee is present in the UK for a period not exceeding in aggregate 183 days in the calendar or Þscal year concerned remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the UK remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a Þxed base which the employer has in the UK Employee seconded to work in the UK If you employ someone who comes to work for you from abroad, youÕre usually responsible for PAY E tax on their earnings, just as you are for any other employee. You should set up their payroll record and then record and report their earnings, and pay any PAY E tax due on those earnings in the usual way. If an employee from abroad falls within the deÞnition of a Ôseconded employeeÕ, youÕre still responsible for PAY E tax on their earnings Ñ but the rules for what tax code to use and what to include in their payroll record are di " erent. A seconded employee includes: individuals working wholly or partly in the UK for a UK employer on assignment whilst remaining employed by an overseas employer individuals assigned to work wholly or partly in the UK at a recognised branch of their overseas employerÕs business all individuals included by an employer within: a dedicated expatriate PAY E scheme an expatriate modiÞed PAY E scheme Read new employee coming to work from abroad for more information on what to include in the payroll record for a seconded employee, and using the right tax code for a seconded employee. 4.6.4 Employees going abroad The PAY E system applies to all employees of a UK employer even if the employees are working abroad for all or part of the time. When you send an employee to work abroad you should provide the employee with a letter giving the following details, the: date the employee went abroad gross pay and tax deducted whilst in your employment for the period from 6 April last to the date the employee was sent abroad If the employee goes abroad to work full time and you move them to a payroll with a di " erent employer reference you should submit an FPS with a date of leaving. You should then send an FPS with starter information from the new reference. If an employee is intending to work in full-time employment abroad for more than a complete tax year you should ask them to complete form P85 . They should send the completed P85 to HMRC who will consider if an NT (nil tax) code can be operated. This applies whether the employee Þles a Self Assessment tax return or not. The P85 should be sent to HMRC no earlier than 8 weeks before the date the overseas work is due to commence and be accompanied by a letter requesting the NT tax code. WeÕll tell you if you can operate code NT and the period for which it can apply. NT tax codes will also be issued