due. When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for month 12. If the payment is made any time between 6 April and 5 April it should be reported on the FPS as month 12. If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for month 12. Pay interval Ñ less than a week You can use the Basic PAYE Tools for this interval. For pay intervals of less than a week the earnings period is one week. To work out National Insurance contributions, add together all the payments made in an Income Tax week. If the total goes over the ST then the earnings and secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions need to be recorded and reported. If the total goes above the LEL the earnings and secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions will need to be recorded and reported but primary Class 1 National Insurance contributions are not yet due. If the total earnings goes above the Primary Threshold then primary Class 1 National Insurance contributions are also due. Use either the: appropriate weekly table exact percentage method to calculate National Insurance contributions from the employer and employee respectively When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for the tax week that includes the date of payment. If a payment is in week 53, use the table for week 52 again. If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for week 1 for each payment. Add to each payment any payments made earlier in the same Income Tax week when working out the tax to be deducted. Pay interval Ñ irregular pay intervals of more than a week but not multiples of weeks or months For irregular pay intervals of more than a week but not multiples of weeks or months, the earnings period is the interval the payment covers. To work out National Insurance contributions due, you must use the exact percentage method. To do this: In all cases the resulting Þgures should be calculated to the nearest penny. Amounts of £0.005 or less should be disregarded. National Insurance contributions are due on earnings in each interval if the earnings exceed the PT for employees and the ST (or the FUST , IZUST , UST , AU S T , VUST as appropriate) for employers. When working out PAY E using tax tables A, if youÕre using a code on a cumulative basis, use the table for the week that includes the date of the payment. If a payment is made in week 53 use the table for week 52, unless youÕre given written instructions by HMRC. If youÕre using a code on a week 1 or month 1 basis, use the table for the week that includes the date of payment (where employment started after 5 April, deduct from that the number at the date of commencement). After that, take into account the time elapsed between payments to the employee to work out the correct basis to use. For example, if the Þrst payment is in week 4, use the table for week 4. If the next payment is made in week 10 use the table for week 6 (10 minus 4). If the payment is made in week 10 but the employment started in week 6 use the table for week 4 (10 minus 6). If the payment is made in week 16 use