a salary sacriÞce or ßexible remuneration arrangement medical, dental treatment or insurance to cover the cost of treatment that was: outside the UK and was necessary while an employee was abroad medical treatment recommended by a health care professional to help an employee return to work up to a maximum cost of £500 in a tax year where the employee is unÞt for work for at least 28 consecutive days mobile phones, meaning one mobile phone used by an employee for private calls o ! ce accommodation, supplies or services such as ordinary o ! ce accommodation, equipment, typists and stationery provided for an employee on your premises and only used by the employee in doing their job relocation expenses payments and beneÞts, exempt expenses of £8,000 or less retirement beneÞts schemes (employer-Þnanced) Ñ payments by employer social functions and annual functions such as Christmas dinners and summer parties, open to sta " generally where the cost per head of the function is £150 or less (where more than one such function is held in a year and the aggregate cost per head of the functions is more than £150 per head, exclude details of any functions that total £150 or less and include details of all other functions) sporting or other recreational facilities, such as shooting, Þshing and gym equipment covered by special exemption subscriptions and professional fees reimbursed by you The exception to this, is where the expenses or beneÞts are provided under salary sacriÞce or other forms of optional remuneration arrangement. More guidance is in paragraph 36 of Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind (CWG5) and in Expenses and beneÞts for directors and employees Ñ a tax guide: 480 . 5.3 Exempt expenses 5.3.1 Exemption for paid or reimbursed expenses From 6 April 2016 paid or reimbursed expenses, and beneÞts provided, for which tax relief is available in full are exempted from tax, subject to certain conditions, and do not need to be payrolled or reported to HMRC on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers . All dispensations ceased to have e " ect on 5 April 2016. Expenses payments or reimbursements for which tax relief is not available on the full amount will need to be paid subject to PAY E . BeneÞts provided for which tax relief is not available on the full amount will need to be reported on form P11D Ñ expenses and beneÞts for employers . The exemption applies to expenses paid or reimbursed at a scale rate, provided the employer either pays or reimburses at either the HMRC published ÔBenchmark scale ratesÕ or at a rate agreed with HMRC in accordance with an approval notice. The exemption can cover most types of expense payments and most beneÞts. For example: qualifying travel expenses reasonable scale rate payments for subsistence entertaining subscriptions to professional bodies or learned societies The exemption cannot apply to: company cars and vans cheap loans round sum allowances mileage payments to employees who use their own cars for business travel For the exemption to apply you must have a checking system in place to make sure that employees are in fact incurring and paying amounts in respect of the expenses and that a deduction is due in respect of the full amount paid or reimbursed. The exemption will not apply to expenses paid or reimbursed under a salary sacriÞce arrangement. Payments made under a salary sacriÞce arrangement should be made under PAY E . Employees can make a claim for tax relief direct to HMRC where any expense is incurred and not paid or