National Insurance contributions on the employeeÕs payroll record in tax month 1 3.2 Working out National Insurance contributions for employees not paid on their usual payday Take the following action if you pay employees on a day other than their usual payday, for example, you bring the payday forward because of a bank holiday or you pay 2 monthsÕ salaries together to employees who submit their timesheets late (mistimed payments). If the actual date of payment and the usual payday are in the same tax year, treat the early or late payment as if it had been made at its usual time Example 1 Two separate weeksÕ wages for weeks ending 6 June and 13 June are paid on 13 June. Work out National Insurance contributions separately on each weekÕs payment. Record the National Insurance contributions information for the late 6 June payment on the employeeÕs payroll record for 6 June and report to HMRC on or before the date of payment. In di " erent tax years, work out National Insurance contributions on the early or late payment separately from any other payments made in that tax year, using the contribution rates and limits appropriate to the year in which the payment is actually made. Example 2 Two separate weeksÕ wages for weeks ending 30 March 2025 and 6 April 2025 are paid on 30 March. Work out National Insurance contributions on each set of earnings separately using the usual earnings period, but record the total National Insurance contributions for both the early 6 April 2025 payment and 30 March 2025 payment together on the employeeÕs payroll record for 30 March and report it to HMRC on or before the date of payment. If the payment is due to be made on a non-banking day, read paragraph Ô1.8 Operation of PAY E and Class 1 National Insurance contributions when the regular date for payment is a non-banking dayÕ . In both the same and di " erent tax years, look at each payment individually and decide which of the rules apply to that payment. Example 3 An employee is paid monthly on submission of a timesheet. The employee submits timesheets for February 2025, March 2025 and April 2025 during May 2025. Work out National Insurance contributions on the payments due for February and March separately using the 2025 to 2026 contribution rates and limits. Record the National Insurance contributions separately in tax month 2. Work out National Insurance contributions on the payments for April and May separately and record the National Insurance contributions in tax months 1 and 2 respectively. The methods described for calculation of mistimed payments can only be used when nothing was paid on the usual paydays. 3.3 Changing the method of working out National Insurance contributions You may work out National Insurance contributions using either the: contribution tables supplied by HMRC exact percentage method, this is when you apply the appropriate percentage rates to the gross pay for the earnings period You must use only one method for a particular employee in any tax year unless: the employee changes to another payroll which already uses the other method you change your payroll system, for example, from manual to computer 3.4 Employees with more than one job This section describes the rules which govern the payment of National Insurance contributions if an employee has more than one job. 3.4.1 An employee has 2 or more jobs with di ! erent employers and each one pays the employee If an employee has another job or jobs with a di " erent employer or employers, work out National 
