in the market. Many said the lack of clarity on the UK’s future position and policy direction prevents the necessary investment in their assurance capabilities. Non-audit firms in particular would like greater clarity on the UK’s position on non-audit firms operating in this market. Many non-audit firms and those outside of the Big Four suggested the growing preference for using the same provider for both statutory audit and assurance services would result in greater use of the Big Four to provide assurance. Many audit firms said the non-audit service fee cap will be a key barrier for them, particularly as assurance engagements become broader in scope and reasonable assurance becomes more prominent. Many stakeholders commented that difficulties in attracting skilled staff created barriers for some firms, especially given the perception that there is a shortage of technical experts in the market. Some providers said there were no barriers to entry in this market because there are no regulatory requirements for sustainability assurance. Stakeholder views – market capacity Many stakeholders raised concerns about whether there is sufficient supply to meet future demand for sustainability assurance in the UK. Some providers reported a shortage of skills and technical expertise in the market, both in the supply of assurance and within companies preparing sustainability reporting. There was concern that this tight labour market could become more constrained as demand increases. To meet growing demand, some stakeholders said significant investment will be required, both within providers and within companies that need to improve their systems and controls environments and recruit specialist people. Non-audit firms said capacity would be severely limited if the UK regulatory position prevented non-audit providers from operating in this market. Many audit firm providers reported making investments to grow their capabilities, both through increasing recruitment and training their people. However, some 
