UK could become a leader in the market for sustainability assurance providing existing barriers to market entry and expansion were addressed. For example. Deloitte told us: “the UK has the 16 The Non-Audit Service Fee Cap prohibits audit firms offering statutory audit clients who are Public Interest Entities non-audit services totalling more than 70% of their average audit fees paid in the last three consecutive financial years. In some cases, audit firms are prevented from offering assurance services (i.e. where this will bring their total non-audit fee over this limit). See paragraphs 4.13 and 4.14 of the FRC’s Revised Ethical Standard 2024, available at: https://www.frc.org.uk/library/standards-codes-policy/audit-assurance-and-ethics/ethical-standard-for-auditors/ opportunity to demonstrate global leadership by developing a cohesive and integrated ecosystem for sustainability reporting and assurance.”17 Stakeholders suggested a considerable proportion of this greater demand would be driven by international regulatory changes that will mandate assurance over a variety of sustainability metrics. This includes the EU’s CSRD which will create mandatory requirements for UK companies carrying out activities in the EU (above a designated threshold). Demand might also increase amongst smaller companies not subject to international regulatory changes, particularly those within the supply chain of a larger company caught by the regulation. As a result of this, stakeholders suggested there were likely to be numerous developments within the market related to the process and delivery of assurance, including: Improving the robustness of companies’ sustainability data and working with data solutions and companies to improve data collection, quality and outcomes. Enhancing and developing methodologies so sustainability data and relevant standards can be used for financial decisions with a greater degree of confidence. Developing skills and training on sustainability data and sharing the capacity to upskill industries to move towards a greener economy supported by data. Barriers to market entry and expansion However, stakeholders reported barriers 
