is to be treated as confidential, you should make it clear in the body of your message whether you wish your comments to be treated as confidential. We will process personal data in accordance with UK data protection legislation and the FRC’s Stakeholder Engagement Privacy Notice. Annex 1 – glossary/further background information Sustainability assurance Sustainability assurance is the provision of an independent third- party opinion on whether an organisation’s sustainability disclosures are aligned with the reporting criteria. In this context, sustainability information includes ESG metrics that are published by a company. Assurance opinions are often published in companies’ annual reports or standalone annual sustainability reports. Market participants Providers: Sustainability assurance is carried out by a variety of audit and non-audit firms including sustainability consultancies, engineering firms and industry certification and inspection firms. Buyers and users of sustainability assurance: Typically, FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 companies and investors. However, sustainability assurance is also obtained by smaller and non-listed companies. Regulatory requirements Mandatory requirements over sustainability reporting have yet to be determined in the UK, other than reporting under the Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosures framework. The UK is currently considering whether to adopt the ISSB sustainability disclosure standards, IFRS S1 and S2. Sustainability assurance is not a homogenous product and is not yet subject to any mandatory requirements in the UK. However, in the EU, reporting and assurance of sustainability information are required as a result of CSRD. UK companies with material EU subsidiaries or levels of business may be caught by these requirements. Assurance standards While there are no mandatory standards in the UK, there are some internationally recognised standards in the market. These include ISAE 3000 and AA 1000 for broad-scope assurance and ISO 14064-3 and ISAE 3410 for GHG metrics. Level of assurance Assurance can be provided 
