sustainability metrics will require assurance. Some are focusing on assurance only for metrics relating to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Some jurisdictions have proposed an eventual move towards mandatory reasonable assurance. Stakeholders reported concerns over the use of different assurance standards, such as ISAE 3000, AA 1000 and incoming standards like ISSA 5000. Many noted that not all standards are clearly understood by companies and investors and there were concerns over the perceived inconsistency in how standards are applied (if at all). Stakeholder views – different approaches from around the world Stakeholders highlighted approaches to sustainability assurance being taken in other jurisdictions, as summarised below. *Source: IFAC data published in “State of Play: Sustainability Disclosure and Assurance 2019-2022 Trends & Analysis”, February 2024. Invitation to comment We welcome written submissions on any of the matters set out in this document by 29 November 2024. We particularly welcome responses to the questions below. Do you agree with our emerging findings? Please explain. Do you have any views or suggestions on any actions that should be taken in light of our emerging findings? How might future developments such as mandatory application of the International Sustainability Standards Board’s (ISSB) sustainability disclosure standards impact the UK sustainability assurance market, including choice of provider and capacity? What should be the future regulatory and policy approach to sustainability assurance in the UK to ensure a well-functioning market that delivers high-quality assurance? Please provide any specific suggestions for changes you would like to see including in relation to the introduction of any regulatory regime. Please email any written responses to competition@frc.org.uk All responses will be acknowledged. We expect to make responses publicly available on the FRC website unless respondents specifically request otherwise. If you send an email response that includes an automatically generated notice stating that the content