established regulatory framework governing sustainability assurance in the UK. Many stakeholders told us this lack of framework presented difficulties for those active in the market.23 Stakeholders broadly expressed a desire for the establishment of a regulatory framework which would cover a wide range of activities including standards setting, registration of assurance providers, and the monitoring of assurance quality in the UK. Assurance requirements Many stakeholders expressed support for mandatory assurance requirements in the UK. Many of these stakeholders noted that any requirements should be proportionate, both in respect of the scope of the assurance required, but also the scope of the companies caught by these requirements. Some smaller companies caught by future requirements may not have the necessary resources to develop their reporting environments to enable assurance. Some stakeholders said that a clear regulatory framework would help ensure consistency in this market. In addition to enabling higher quality assurance, it would also allow investors and wider stakeholders to better compare company performance by ensuring all companies are reporting and assuring the same information. However, some stakeholders expressed reservations, noting mandatory requirements would create additional burden on companies who have limited resources. Other stakeholders felt that the market was too immature for mandatory assurance, and it would need time to develop best practices to avoid regular restatements. Some stakeholders suggested that an alternative to mandatory assurance requirements could be the implementation of an Audit and Assurance Policy statement, which would enable greater transparency to stakeholders on the reasoning behind directors’ decisions to assure, or not assure, particular elements of their sustainability reporting. 23 We note that the Government has signalled its support for the creation of a regulatory framework for sustainability reporting via the creation of an endorsement mechanism for ISSB standards (for more information, please see: https://www.gov.uk/guidance/uk-sustainability-reporting-standards). However, agreeing a 
