a preferred choice for many companies. Efficiencies of using one provider for both statutory audit and sustainability assurance Many stakeholders noted the synergies involved in using one provider for both statutory audit and sustainability assurance. This was particularly the case for large, complex companies. Using one provider for both assurance and audit could allow a company to streamline the process and reduce resource burdens. Some Big Four firms also noted that companies were increasingly tendering both audit and assurance together.14 Some audit firms, outside of the Big Four, expressed concern that if companies begin using one firm for both the provision of assurance and statutory audit, it would risk entrenching Big Four dominance in the FTSE 350 due to the market being primarily audited by the Big Four. Changing regulatory requirements Mandatory assurance requirements being imposed in other jurisdictions, e.g. CSRD in the EU, may drive companies to choose Big Four providers, due to the wider range of sustainability metrics falling under these requirements. Some audit firms questioned whether many non- audit firm providers would be able to compete for broader scope assurance engagements, due to their more limited resources.15 Some stakeholders expressed the view that incoming sustainability reporting standards developed by the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) more closely link sustainability reporting to financial reporting, which would only further increase the synergies in having a company’s statutory auditor also provide the assurance. However, other stakeholders disagreed with this view, particularly non-audit firm providers, who said they were equally qualified to provide assurance over ISSB reporting. Limitations in the use of audit firms Some stakeholders expressed a view that, in many instances, an audit firm may not be best placed to provide sustainability assurance. 14 We have not seen any evidence to suggest audit firms were engaging in anticompetitive behaviour 
