similar framework for assurance against those reporting standards has yet to progress. Standards and frameworks Many stakeholders expressed the view that there should be greater clarity on the standards assurance providers would be expected to use as part of an assurance engagement, inclusive of assurance standards and quality management frameworks. The majority of those who expressed a preference on standards supported the use of ISSA 5000, although it was noted that there are additional, industry-specific standards, such as in banking and extraction, which might also have a place in a future framework. Audit firms were particularly in favour of a uniform quality management framework for all providers. Audit firms are subject to the mandatory application of ISQM 1,24 and some non- audit providers of assurance accredited by UKAS are subject to ISO 9001,25 both quality management systems developed within their relevant sectors. However, many non-audit firms are not subject to any quality management frameworks whatsoever. Audit firms told us that this created uneven competition where some firms are caught by more stringent standards than others, leading to higher costs incurred in the provision of assurance. Supervisory regime In conjunction with standardisation of assurance standards and frameworks, many stakeholders in the market would like the development of a supervisory regime. Many called for an appointed regulator with a statutory role to oversee and monitor the market. The regulator’s role could include accreditation of assurance providers offering services in the UK and quality oversight, similar to the FRC’s Audit Quality Review mechanism. Some providers of assurance also said any regulator should have an enforcement mechanism. Deloitte told us that “in order to reduce diversity in practice, both in terms of the application of standards and the quality of service provided, and to ensure more consistent, high-quality outcomes, regulators and the UK government 
