assurance requirements should be staggered to ensure companies develop their reporting capabilities before being required to obtain assurance. Remedies In this section, we set out some remedies that respond to our findings. Overall, at present, the market for assurance of sustainability reporting seems to function relatively well. However, the market is still developing and remains relatively immature, and we have found some issues, as set out in the previous section, that we could address to help ensure the market develops well. It is also important to ensure there is sufficient capacity in this market to meet any further growth in demand, which could be rapid. We believe the three remedies below could help ensure a well-functioning sustainability assurance market in UK. A well-functioning market would produce good quality assurance to support the production of useful, reliable reporting for investors, without creating undue burdens and costs on business. The evidence shows that currently there is a variety and choice of sustainability assurance providers in the UK but there are concerns over consistency and quality of the assurance (Finding I). In addition, there are significant concerns that a lack of clarity on UK’s regulatory position could hinder investment, planning and capacity development (Finding II). Development of a clear, proportionate, sector and provider agnostic policy framework could help address these issues and provide clarity to the market. Given the sustainability assurance market is global and international developments impact on the UK market, consideration should be given to the interoperability of any UK policy framework with international standards, policies and other requirements. Further considerations should also be given to the timings and phasing-in of any policy framework or regulations to minimise unintended consequences, potential cost burdens on businesses and ensure market readiness. Our findings demonstrate a potential risk that without an established regulatory framework,