the market is immature and not delivering consistent high-quality assurance of sustainability reporting. All audit firms commented on the lack of a mandatory framework for sustainability assurance which could set a baseline for quality. They also said it was not always clear to companies how different assurance services vary. Many providers mentioned an ‘uneven playing field’. Some said the market was partially regulated, with audit firms subject to some regulation. Others felt existing regulation, as well as other factors, made it more likely audit firms would be preferred. Some companies reported difficulties in selecting a credible provider due to variations in quality. Benefits and costs of assurance Most stakeholders said that sustainability assurance is valuable. Assurance gives stakeholders confidence on the data being reported by companies which supports additional benefits, such as: Greater competitiveness for investor funding; including via improved Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) ratings from ESG ratings agencies. Better access to improved financing arrangements through green financing initiatives. More confidence in data for internal management, leading to more informed strategic decision-making. Many stakeholders, including the majority of companies, told us there are significant costs associated with obtaining assurance. This includes both the direct fees payable to the assurance provider and the costs associated with developing the company systems, processes and controls underpinning disclosures. There may be greater burdens for small/mid-cap companies that have fewer resources available to dedicate to obtaining assurance. Anecdotally, we have been told the price of assurance can vary significantly, from 5% to 30% of the statutory audit fee. Stakeholder views – choice and competition All stakeholders said there was a variety of providers but many felt that, in practice, choice is limited. Most audit firms and some companies suggested wide variability in quality and capability of providers meaning that, in reality, the choice was 
