in the UK. However, if an accreditation regime was established in the UK, accredited firms may be deemed as authorised. Implementation Stakeholders in favour of a regulatory regime suggested some factors that should be considered if such a regime was implemented. Interoperability: A key concern for many stakeholders was the impact of developments overseas and the extent to which UK requirements would converge with those elsewhere. CSRD was mentioned most frequently but also other requirements elsewhere in the world. Stakeholders said it was important to have interoperability between different jurisdictions and they hoped that the adoption of ISSB standards would assist in this regard. ­ For example, the UKAS noted there “[t]here [are] a great number of sustainability reporting initiatives and evolving legislation around the globe with many of these recognising the role of [non-audit firms]. It is worth emphasising that many UK companies will have to comply with one or more of these initiatives and requirements in managing their global operations, complex supply chains and cross-border trade. Aligning the UK approach with the approach that many other jurisdictions have taken will level the playing field and help lower barriers to trade and entry into new markets or for the UK plc.”28 27 See Forvis Mazars submission to the FRC dated 7 June 2024; available at: https://www.frc.org.uk/consultations/assurance-of-sustainability-reporting-market-study/ 28 See UKAS submission to the FRC dated 13 June 2024; available at: https://www.frc.org.uk/consultations/assurance-of-sustainability-reporting-market-study/ ‘Phasing-in’ requirements: Many stakeholders wanted any future requirements phased- in appropriately. The market for sustainability reporting and assurance is immature and companies are still developing their capabilities and systems. Requiring too much too quickly might not only impact the ability of companies to meet these requirements, but also impact the capacity of assurance providers to deliver the work required. Many stakeholders specifically recommended that the introduction of reporting and 
