the UK sustainability assurance market may not produce consistent, high-quality sustainability information for decision-making (Finding IV). A body responsible for sustainability assurance in the UK could help ensure consistency and quality of sustainability assurance. Consideration should be given to the remit and scope of this body to achieve the desired outcome while promoting competition and ensuring quality in the market. The evidence shows that there has been a growing preference for companies to use their audit providers for sustainability assurance, and there are concerns that the market could become dominated by the Big Four. The UK market is subject to significant change due to regulatory developments internationally and in the UK (Finding II). Monitoring of the market and emerging trends will be crucial to understand how the market evolves and responds to the challenges and opportunities, and can also help ensure evidence-based policy development in the future. Our findings demonstrate that there are concerns about the immaturity of the market. Many stakeholders said there was limited understanding of sustainability assurance including of its benefits (Finding III). The development of better information on the quality of sustainability assurance could support companies when they are selecting and tendering for providers. For a well- functioning market, buyers need to be able to access, assess, and act on information that enables them to select the goods or services that offer the best value. Companies could benefit from more advice/guidance that covers the different levels of assurance and relevant standards. This advice/guidance could also benefit investors and wider stakeholders, who are less familiar with assurance, enabling them to better understand the differences between the assurance obtained by different companies. Finally, given the market’s immaturity and limited understanding of sustainability issues amongst some stakeholders, there might be benefits in providing information on the importance and value