2023. The Big Four are the largest four providers of assurance to FTSE 350 companies and have increased their collective market share to 40% (up from 33% in 2019, and 35% in 2022). The preference for using auditors to supply sustainability assurance appears driven by various factors including companies seeking efficiencies and possibly international changes affecting some UK companies, for example those in scope of the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) requirements. Summary of evidence: Although we do not have fundamental concerns about how the sustainability assurance market functions at present, the market is still developing and is relatively immature. Stakeholders collectively agreed that there was a clear need for transparency and clarity on likely future regulatory requirements, or at least the direction of travel, including a clear timeline for law and regulation to come into effect and any implementation period to enable adequate planning, investment and future compliance. Many stakeholders would like any UK regulatory requirements to be fully interoperable with other international regulations. Many stakeholders also emphasised the importance of education and training across a broad range of stakeholders involved in preparing, assuring and using sustainability information and reports. Summary of evidence: Given the market is still immature, many stakeholders suggested that a regulatory framework could play an important role in helping to ensure high-quality sustainability information. Some stakeholders had concerns that the lack of an established framework for the quality of assurance created inconsistencies in the market. Remedies In light of our findings summarised above, we consider the following remedies could help ensure a well-functioning sustainability assurance market in the UK. Introduction This document presents our final findings and proposed remedies from our market study on the assurance of sustainability reporting by UK companies, which we launched in March 2024. We want to ensure the UK’s 
