market for sustainability assurance is working effectively, with a wide range of providers producing high-quality assurance that meets the needs of companies and investors. The market study has focused on how well the UK sustainability assurance market is functioning; whether it is delivering desirable results, including high-quality assurance, without creating undue burdens and costs for business; and how it could develop in the future. The market study had three broad themes: Choice of sustainability assurance providers and competition. Market capacity, opportunities and barriers to entry/expansion. The regulatory framework, including how changing international requirements could affect the UK market. We published our emerging findings in October 2024 inviting stakeholders to comment. The publication was informed by evidence and data from several sources. A third-party provider Minerva Analytics Ltd collected publicly available data on the assurance of sustainability information reported by FTSE 350 companies since 2019. We also engaged with over 100 stakeholders through 32 one-to-one meetings and 10 roundtables. This report builds on the emerging findings and the additional information and evidence we have gathered since October 2024, as detailed below. The latest publicly available 2023 data on the assurance of sustainability information reported by the FTSE 350 companies. Through a further eight roundtables, we engaged with over 40 stakeholders to discuss our emerging findings and collect new evidence. These included FTSE 350 companies, private UK companies, audit and non-audit firm providers of sustainability assurance, sustainability consultancies, investors, professional and industry trade bodies and other institutions with an interest in sustainability. We received 15 written submissions to our emerging findings publication. All stakeholders broadly agreed with our emerging findings. Most of these written submissions have been published at: https://www.frc.org.uk/consultations/assurance-of- sustainability-reporting-market-study/ We would like to take this opportunity to thank all stakeholders who have engaged with us and contributed throughout the market 
