at https://www.frc.org.uk/about-us/reports-plans-and-budgets/plan-and-budget/ Scope and approach to the market study Overview of sustainability information and assurance Many UK companies disclose sustainability information4, often in their annual reports or dedicated annual sustainability reports. To provide additional confidence in the information being reported, these companies may choose to have that information ‘assured’. Assurance is the service in which third parties review the underlying evidence and form a conclusion over their degree of confidence in the information being disclosed. Sustainability is a broad term that can be interpreted widely, and sustainability assurance varies (both in the subject matter being assured and the level and nature of assurance being provided). In the UK listed companies, FCA regulated entities, and other specified companies are required to provide climate-related financial disclosures alongside other sustainability related disclosures.5 Assurance of this information is not subject to any mandatory requirements in the UK. Sustainability assurance for UK companies is currently supplied by a variety of audit and non-audit firms. Non-audit firms include engineering firms, sustainability consultancies and industry-specific inspection and certification bodies. In 2022, 42% of assurance obtained by FTSE 100 companies was provided by audit firms.6 Some suppliers of sustainability assurance choose to use internationally recognised standards, such as ISAE3000, AA1000 or ISO140647, but other suppliers may not follow any recognised standards. Some suppliers may provide different levels of assurance. For example, a ‘limited’ or a ‘reasonable’ assurance engagement. Recent regulatory developments internationally could impact the UK’s sustainability assurance market. Some of the key developments include: The International Auditing and Assurance Board has developed a new assurance standard specifically tailored for the assurance of sustainability information, ISSA5000. This may have an impact on the standards being used in the market. 4 This includes: (i) any information about the opportunities, risks or impacts of economic, environmental, social, governance or other 
