note an increasing bias towards the use of an auditor (or an audit firm more generally) for assurance provision. However, some assurance providers and companies commented on the importance of providers having subject matter expertise which some said was more likely among non-audit firms. All audit firms said they retrain auditors to provide sustainability assurance and consider auditors’ skills to be directly transferrable to the provision of sustainability assurance. Most audit firms told us that they see sustainability assurance as a key tool in increasing the attractiveness of the audit profession because many potential auditors have an interest in sustainability. Stakeholder views – opportunities and barriers Opportunities for growth Stakeholders agreed that there was growing demand for assurance and this would result in significant new opportunities for providers. A considerable proportion of this demand will be driven by international regulatory changes that will mandate assurance over a variety of sustainability metrics. This includes the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) which will create mandatory requirements for UK companies carrying out activities in the EU (above a designated threshold). Demand may also increase amongst smaller companies not subject to international regulatory changes; particularly those within the supply chain of a larger company caught by the regulation. Stakeholders suggested a number of opportunities within the market related to the process and delivery of assurance, including: Improving or challenging the robustness of data and working with data solutions and companies to improve data collection, quality and outcomes. Enhancing and developing methodologies so data and standards can be used for financial decisions with a degree of confidence. Developing skills and training and sharing the capacity to upskill industries to move towards a greener economy supported by data. Barriers to market entry and expansion Providers expressed differing views on potential barriers to entry and expansion 
