provider. This highlights the need for improved awareness of what sustainability assurance is, including how limited assurance differs to reasonable assurance. […] [t]he majority of respondents did not sufficiently understand the work that a sustainability assurance provider undertakes”.8 Quality of assurance Most companies told us that, when considering assurance providers, the primary factor they considered was the quality of the assurance, which included considerations such as the level 8 The ACCA’s submission to the FRC dated 13 June 2024, available at: https://www.frc.org.uk/consultations/assurance-of-sustainability-reporting-market-study/ of expertise and experience of the provider, their size and global presence, and their reputation. However, many stakeholders had concerns over the quality of the assurance being delivered, including some buyers of assurance who noted significant variability in the quality and credibility of assurance providers. Some companies felt there was a lack of sufficient technical expertise in the market which limited their choice, due to concerns over quality. Some stakeholders pointed to the lack of a regulatory framework and mandatory standards as a cause of the inconsistency of quality in the market. Use of standards and frameworks Some stakeholders noted concerns over the lack of mandatory assurance standards and frameworks in the market. Many felt that there was inconsistency in the assurance provided in the market, even where the same assurance standards are used. The Investment Association, a trade body for investment managers, told us that “[o]ne of the key challenges for sustainability assurance is the lack of a global and consistent framework that can guide the assurance practitioners and provide confidence to the users of the assurance statements. The current landscape is characterised by varying sustainability reporting standards and approaches, consequently leading to discrepancies in the scope, quality and level of assurance, potentially eroding the credibility and comparability of sustainability information. This fragmentation can result in confusion 
