the importance of delivering on time at any cost better enables them to enact the more time-intensive behaviours of scepticism and challenge. “Making people aware of the responsibility they have to challenge the client [is important].” (Assistant manager / Manager) “That drives a more open culture… if you know from the start that things aren’t going to be perfect, it drives more openness.” (Partner) Also considered to be effective drivers of scepticism and challenge were audit firm-wide communications which are grounded in specific, real-life examples. Most auditors, particularly at associate and manager level, saw celebrating good quality audits, which successfully exhibit scepticism and challenge, as instructive and motivating. On the other hand, sharing case studies based on audits with lower quality scores was considered to be equally beneficial, particularly where missed opportunities to exhibit or record instances of challenge are noted. Overall, auditors across all levels felt that sharing real-life examples of high quality and more challenging audits is one of the most effective means of identifying potential improvements and lessons, helping auditors understand what went wrong in an audit and where time should be focussed in future. “Using examples is often the best way for people to learn.” (Senior manager / Director) Ad hoc communication to embed desired auditor behaviours Ongoing ad hoc communication about the importance of scepticism and challenge was widely considered highly effective across all levels within a firm, and many auditors pointed to how culture is driving effective communication to support these behaviours. Many auditors referenced partners, directors and senior managers that have clear ‘open door policies’, including formal and informal routes of contact (i.e. direct messages as well as emails), as being the key conduits for how scepticism and challenge are talked about within firms. These colleagues were considered to be largely effective in