governance has not been prioritised for the next Parliamentary session, the FRC remains committed to improving the functioning of the audit market. Some of the competition policy proposals we can progress under our existing powers but some require legislation. Where legislation is necessary, we are seeking to identify and pursue non- legislative actions and activities that can help achieve the proposal’s aims such as market opening and improving choice of firm. Our recent work on competition in the audit market In support of promoting effective competition, we have continued developing our approach to our competition objective and embedding understanding of competition across the FRC. We have explored the potential interactions between our competition and innovation objectives through engagement with academics, which provided insights on issues such as the forms innovation can take, its potential drivers, and the role we can play in relation to innovation including through our audit and assurance sandbox. Alongside our general monitoring of competition, we have explored specific market issues. We engaged with some providers of assurance of sustainability (ESG) reporting and some Audit Committee Chairs (ACCs) of FTSE 350 companies to see if developments in the market for assurance of sustainability (ESG) reporting could have implications for the supply of statutory audits. We found sustainability assurance is a fast-developing and growing market. In May 2023, we published our Audit Committees and the External Audit: Minimum Standard to help ensure the selection and oversight of external auditors is focused on quality. The content of the Standard is based on existing FRC best practice and guidance for Audit Committees, and has been made available now so Audit Committees can familiarise themselves and prepare before legislation that will make the Standard mandatory. We have also published research on Audit Committee Chairs’ views on, and approach, to sustainability. In 
