Home Library Audit committees and assurance: conversation starters PUBLISHED: 4 OCTOBER 2023 4 MINUTE READ Assurance and other topics discussed by audit committees are vital to investors' understanding of companies. These are particularly relevant to financial reporting and internal control. The audit committee report is a valuable source of information for investors. However, direct conversations with audit committee chairs, too, can act as a helpful additional resource. They could provide insight into the company’s approach to current and future areas of regulatory focus and market participants' areas of interest. Investors may not, traditionally, have engaged in discussions with audit committee chairs. In order to promote such conversations, the FRC has developed a series of ‘conversation starters’ for investors to consider. The conversation starters are structured by topic and include an initial ‘broad’ question with several more detailed follow-up questions. Below is the first in a series of conversation starters for use by investors wishing to engage with audit committees and companies on assurance-related topics. Future areas of focus may include, further ESG-related considerations, approach to materiality, contextualising risk and business model, use of emerging technology and other topical issues as they emerge. Significant matters Conversation starter Please give more detail about the significant issues the committee considered in relation to the financial statements. Suggested follow-ups How does the committee determine what makes an issue "significant"? How have the significant issues been addressed? How have these significant issues changed since last year? How do you expect them to change in the coming year? Are there any emerging issues which you expect to become significant in the future? How did you decide which significant issues to include in the audit committee report? What system(s) are in place to ensure the committee is able to monitor the evolution of significant issues and to