that is not possible in a structured survey. For this research supporting the FRC’s culture project in particular, a qualitative approach was most appropriate as it allowed a deep exploration of the relatively complex, intangible and interrelated topics of audit firm culture, professional scepticism and effective challenge, which can be difficult for auditors (and indeed any audience) to articulate without active questioning and probing. In particular, it lent itself to building a nuanced understanding of the drivers and inhibitors of behaviours correlated to high quality audit and developing rich case study content to bring these findings to life. It also complemented and contrasted with the more quantitative-led approaches which firms tended to take themselves in examining and measuring culture. Finally, it gave auditors who would not usually be asked to lend their voice to the future of audit discussions the opportunity to contribute their thoughts and experiences to a conversation that is shaping their industry. For these reasons, qualitative methods are becoming increasingly prevalent in research to understand organisational culture. Within the focus groups, we asked questions that probed an individual’s understanding of expected and acceptable behaviour as it was important that we understood the ‘why’ behind their answers to questions around ‘what is happening’ and ‘what dilemmas auditors face’. We also presented case studies during the sessions that covered hypothetical scenarios in which there were significant barriers to scepticism and challenge to provide a further route to explore auditors’ understanding of what could limit the quality of an audit engagement. By using these case studies, rather than asking questions directly, we were able to observe the key barriers that auditors believed to be particularly problematic, comparing and contrasting responses across the junior, manager and senior auditor levels. 4 Sofaer, S. Qualitative Methods: What Are They and Why Use Them?