and training courses that contain examples, case studies and explicit links to specific behaviours are more effective in driving quality, professional scepticism and effective challenge, than talking hypothetically or at a more general level. Exposure to partners, directors and managers modelling values and behaviours during audit engagements is critical to auditors learning what quality, challenge and scepticism looks like in practice.| Ongoing prompts and reminders|Built-in mechanisms and processes throughout engagements are critical to encouraging and creating a space for scepticism and challenge. These mechanisms prompt stepping back and collective debate, via a combination of formal meetings or informal discussions. Calling out good behaviours and examples as they happen, and giving timely feedback is key for embedding positive behaviours around scepticism and challenge, and addressing instances where these behaviours have not been applied. Regular ‘bite-sized’ formal communications (e.g. regulatory update emails) which emphasise quality and the specific behaviours that ladder up to quality, including scepticism and challenge.| The role of senior auditors (especially partners)|Mechanisms that lend themselves to flatter hierarchies and help to create a sense of team culture, such as open plan office spaces, are critical for ensuring that there is rapport. Junior auditors can learn from seeing rather than being told, and feel more compelled to approach their seniors within a culture of psychological safety. Senior auditors communicating the priorities of the audit, from the initial meeting and then throughout (e.g. quality vs. deadlines), is key to audit managers and junior level auditors feeling confident that they should be prioritising quality, challenge and scepticism. Delivering ‘softer’ recognition such as praising junior colleagues directly, or calling them out in team meetings for quality-related| |behaviours, can help to reinforce a culture that is focussed on quality, and in which scepticism and challenge is expected and encouraged.| There are also some strong 
