to the reporting of climate-related risks. Suggested follow-ups To what extent is climate change being incorporated into key accounting assumptions about areas such as impairments, depreciation and asset decommissioning? How is this likely to change in future? Where relevant, is the committee satisfied with the level of assurance in the company's TCFD disclosures? Further reading CRR Thematic review of TCFD disclosures and climate in the financial statements ( July 2022) Para 9.2.2 Assess Assure and Inform, Improving Audit Quality and Effectiveness, Report of the Independent Review into the Quality and Effectiveness of Audit (December 2019) Risk - cyber Conversation starter What role does the committee play in relation to the company's disclosures about cyber- related risks? Suggested follow-ups Do the cyber-related risk disclosures adequately reflect the company's preparedness and its understanding of the full threat landscape, company vulnerabilities, mitigating actions and their effectiveness? Further reading FRC Lab Report: Digital Security Risk Disclosure (August 2022) Risks - fraud Conversation starter How does the committee satisfy itself that management has systems in place to detect fraud? Suggested follow-ups To what extent is the committee involved in the oversight of the company's whistleblowing procedures? How do you ensure that these are appropriate? Audit effectiveness Conversation starter How does the committee measure the effectiveness of the external audit? Suggested follow-ups Please talk about the relationship with the external auditor. How do you balance the need for cooperation and ongoing dialogue with the requirement to objectively assess the auditor's work? Can you give examples of how you have challenged the auditor's findings? Can you give examples of how the auditor has challenged management? Can you explain the key firm and network level controls relied on to address identified risks to audit quality? Can you discuss the findings of internal and external inspections of the audit 
