that employee is also a director of the company. Certain other restrictions apply to companies making claims so you should seek advice to determine if your business can claim this valuable relief. National Minimum Wage National Living Wage (NLW) and National Minimum Wage (NMW) increases take effect from 1 April 2025: For 21-year-olds and over, NLW will increase to £12.21 per hour (an increase of £0.77) For 18 to 20-year-olds, NMW will increase to £10.00 per hour (an increase of £1.40) For 16 to 17-year-olds, NMW will increase to £7.55 per hour (an increase of £1.15) Businesses must ensure it budgets for these changes Ð especially if it has a large workforce at or near this wage level. Asset and business sales The 2024 Autumn Budget introduced changes to Capital Gains Tax (CGT) rates . CGT rates on residential property will remain at 18% for basic rate taxpayers and 24% for higher rate taxpayers. However, for assets such as shares, the CGT rates are due to increase. In a blow to business owners, the CGT rate for Business Asset Disposal Relief (BADR) and InvestorsÕ Relief will increase from 10% to 14% from 6 April 2025 and will increase again to match the lower main rate of CGT at 18% from 6 April 2026. Business owners and farmers should also be aware that valuable inheritance tax (IHT) reliefs are due to be less generous from April. The so called 100% Agricultural and Business Property Relief rate of relief is set to continue, but only for the first £1 million of combined agricultural and business assets. Thereafter, only 50% relief will apply. Business owners may wish to factor these changes into their succession plans. Changes to Companies House reporting Upcoming changes to Companies House reporting may affect small and micro businesses. Proposed changes include transitioning towards filing accounts by software only, the end of abridged and filleted accounts and new rules for registered offices. Small companies that do not qualify as micro entities will also need to file a director's report. Employment Rights Bill Business should also be aware that the 2024 Employment Rights Bill is intended to create greater flexibility and employee protections, so you may need input from an employment lawyer, where these greater employee rights impact your operations. Summary With significant changes on the horizon, and a closing window to review year-end tax planning, businesses should make some time to ensure they are tax efficient and are prepared for the year ahead. This article is intended to inform rather than advise and is based on legislation and practice at the time. Circumstances do vary and if you feel that the information provided is beneficial it is important that you contact us before implementation. If you take, or do not take action as a result of reading this article, before receiving our written endorsement, we will accept no responsibility for any financial loss incurred. About the author Andy Gibbs ATT CTA is Director of Services at TaxAssist Accountants and is a qualified Chartered Tax Adviser (CTA) and holds the STEP Advanced Certificate in Trust and Estate Accounting. He has dealt with both tax compliance and tax advisory projects across a range of industry sectors. See also Employment law 2025: Five key tasks for HR Find out more National Insurance rates and categories (GOV.UK) Employment Allowance (GOV.UK) National Minimum Wage and National Living Wage rates (GOV.UK) Capital Gains Tax Ñ rates of tax (GOV.UK) Get ready for changes to UK company law (GOV.UK) Employment Rights Bill (Parliament) Images Getty Images Publication date 4 March 2025 Any opinion expressed in this article 
