From: Published Last updated Guidance Capital Gains Tax rates and allowances Use these rates and allowances for Capital Gains Tax to work out your overall gains above your tax-free allowance, known as the annual exempt amount. HM Revenue & Customs ( /government/organisations/hm-revenue-customs ) 4 June 2018 6 April 2025 Ñ YouÕll get an annual tax-free allowance, known as the annual exempt amount ( AEA ), if youÕre liable to Capital Gains Tax every tax year unless youÕre non-domiciled in the UK and have claimed the remittance basis of taxation on your foreign income and gains. You only pay Capital Gains Tax if your overall gains for the tax year (after deducting any losses and applying any reliefs) are above the annual exempt amount. ThereÕs one annual exempt amount for: most individuals who live in the UK executors or personal representatives of a deceased personÕs estate trustees for disabled people A lower rate of annual exempt amount applies for most other trustees ( https://www.gov.uk/trusts-taxes/trusts-and-capital-gains-tax ) . Non-residents who dispose of a UK residential property are liable to Capital Gains Tax and, in most cases, can claim the annual exempt amount in the same way as Contents Annual exempt amount limits Ñ Rates for Capital Gains Tax Ñ UK residents. This is not available to companies who dispose of a UK residential property, as they may be able to claim other allowances. Annual exempt amount limits You can use your annual exempt amount against the gains charged at the highest rates to reduce the amount of tax you owe. Ta x year !! Annual exempt amount for individuals, personal representatives and trustees for disabled people Annual exempt amount for other trustees 2025 to 2026 £3,000 £1,500 2024 to 2025 £3,000 £1,500 2023 to 2024 £6,000 £3,000 2022 to 2023 £12,300 £6,150 2021 to 2022 £12,300 £6,150 2020 to 2021 £12,300 £6,150 Executors and personal representatives If youÕre acting as an executor or personal representative for a deceased personÕs estate, you may get the full annual exempt amount during the administration period. The administration period is the time it takes to settle the deceased personÕs affairs, from the day after the death until the date everything has been passed on to beneÞciaries. YouÕre entitled to the annual exempt amount for the tax year in which the death occurred and the following 2 tax years. This means one annual exempt amount against gains in each of those years. After that thereÕs no tax-free allowance against gains during the administration period. Find out more about dealing with the estate of someone whoÕs died ( https://www.gov.uk/probate-estate/managing-and-selling-assets ) . Trustees for disabled people If youÕre acting as a trustee for a disabled person use the ÔIndividuals, personal representatives and trustees for disabled peopleÕ rates shown in the annual exempt amount table. For Capital Gains Tax purposes, a disabled person is a person who has mental health problems, or gets the middle or higher rate of Attendance Allowance or Disability Living Allowance. Find out more about Capital Gains Tax and trusts ( https://www.gov.uk/personal- tax/capital-gains-tax ) . If youÕre non-domiciled in the UK Yo u w i l l n o t g e t t h e ! annual exempt amount if youÕre non-domiciled in the UK and youÕve claimed the remittance basis of taxation on your foreign income and gains. You may be non-domiciled in the UK if you were born in another country and intend to return there, for example. You may have claimed the remittance basis if you have income and gains from abroad and have decided that itÕs beneÞcial to be taxed on the 
