recognised at initial recognition under Option 1 and recognised as part of the sales revenue. Accounting and Reporting Policy FRS 102 Staff Education Note 12 Incoming resources from non-exchange transactions Disclaimer This Education Note has been prepared by FRC staff for the convenience of users of FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland. It aims to illustrate certain requirements of FRS 102, but should not be relied upon as a definitive statement on the application of the standard. The illustrative material is not a substitute for reading the detailed requirements of FRS 102. Contents|| | Page| Introduction|2| Accounting treatment|| Recognition|3| Measurement|4| Disclosures|5| Examples Example 1: Donated goods provided to charity shops 6 Example 2: Donated services – Volunteers 6 Example 3: Donated services – Services that would otherwise have 7 been purchased Example 4: Donation with performance-related conditions 7 Page | 1 Introduction This Staff Education Note compares the accounting treatment for incoming resources from non-exchange transactions under current UK accounting standards and FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland. Incoming resources from non-exchange transactions is a topic specific to public benefit entities. Non-exchange transactions include, but are not limited to, donations of cash, goods and services, and legacies. Current UK accounting standards do not include specific requirements relating to donations, other than in relation to the receipt of tangible fixed assets as gifts or donations by charities which fall within the scope of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets. The Statement of Principles: Interpretation for public benefit entities includes a discussion of donated goods and services. The Charity Commission considered this in drafting the current version of its SORP Accounting and Reporting by Charities: A Statement of Recommended Practice. FRS 102 addresses this area in Section 
