resources from non-exchange transactions as follows: Donated services and facilities that would otherwise have been purchased shall be measured at the value to the entity. All other incoming resources from non-exchange transactions shall be measured at the fair value of the resources received or receivable. (FRS 102 paragraph PBE34.73) Paragraph PBE34.73(a) requires donated services and facilities to be measured at the value to the entity. This requirement only applies to those services and facilities that would otherwise have been purchased by the entity. The value placed on these services and facilities should be the estimated value to the entity of the service or facility received, this will be the price the entity estimates it would pay in the open market for a service or facility of equivalent utility to the entity. (FRS 102 paragraph PBE34B.15)| In many cases there will be no change in the measurement of resources received in non-exchange transactions. Disclosures Statement of Principles: Interpretation for public benefit entities|FRS 102| This does not generally address detailed disclosure requirements, but does recommend disclosure of the nature and scale of donated services received that have not been recognised. (Paragraph 4.51)|Disclosure is required of: The nature and amounts of resources receivable from non- exchange transactions that have been recognised in the financial statements. Any unfulfilled conditions or other contingencies attached to resources that have been received in non- exchange transactions, but have not yet been recognised as income. An indication of any other forms of resources from non-exchange transactions from which the entity has benefited. (FRS 102 paragraph PBE34.74)| There are no differences of principle between the requirements. Examples Example 1 Donated goods provided to charity shops A charity receives many donations of unwanted clothes, books etc. The charity will need to sort through the donations to identify those suitable for 
