other legal rights. An entity may choose to recognise other intangible assets separately if they meet the recognition criteria and are either separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights. The Basis for Conclusions (paragraph B18.10) sets out some examples of intangible assets that would, and those that would not, normally satisfy the criteria for separate recognition. Intangible assets that would normally satisfy the criteria include licences, copyrights, trademarks, internet domain names, patented technology and legal protected trade secrets. Those that would not normally satisfy the criteria include customer lists, customer relationships and unprotected trade secrets. The items listed are only examples and entities are expected to apply judgement in determining whether separate recognition is required or not. On transition A mandatory transitional provision has been introduced in paragraph 1.19(b). The amendment outlined above constitutes a change in accounting policy as a result of a change in FRS 102. However, contrary to paragraph 10.12, this change in policy shall be applied prospectively (not retrospectively) and therefore an entity shall not subsume intangible assets that previously have been separately recognised within goodwill. If an entity makes further acquisitions after the implementation of these amendments it will need to ensure it provides suitable disclosure of its approach to recognising intangible assets. Definition of a financial institution Amendments to Section 34 Specialised Activities An entity that meets the definition of a financial institution is required to provide additional disclosures set out in paragraphs 34.17 to 34.33. The definition includes a list of specific types of entity and a principle. To reduce the interpretational difficulties associated with the principle, it was amended to remove references to ‘generate wealth’ and ‘manage risk’. This should reduce the number of entities meeting the definition. Additionally, retirement benefit plans and stockbrokers were also removed. On transition An 
