providing strategy consulting advice to an audited entity with respect to a decision as to whether or not to enter a new market or whether to have operations in a different territory would be prohibited as being linked to an audited entity’s “investment strategy”. Transfer pricing – these services are prohibited where they are “linked to” capital structure and allocation, for example where the work involves providing advice on the client’s capital structure or would have an impact on regulatory capital requirements. FRC Staff Guidance Note 01/2017 (April 2017) 1 Assisting or advising an audited entity in developing corporate strategies related to financing, capital structure and allocation and investment strategy. Financial/investment strategy related services – which can include assisting the company with re-evaluating their capital allocation and deployment, transaction strategy, and/or market strategy. Business/financial modelling – where it could be used to support a company with defining or reorganising its corporate/capital structure, capital allocation or financing/investment strategy. Identifying possible targets for the audited entity to acquire. M&A lead advisory acquisition (or similar) services which can include research to identify potential targets, assistance with negotiations as well as execution. Assisting or advising on disposal transactions - M&A lead advisory disposal (or similar) services which can include sell-side assistance which involves assisting the client to “package” a part of their business for sale as well as helping to identify potential buyers. Assisting or advising on finance raising transactions - capital and debt advisory services relating to financing, capital structure and allocation or re-allocation of assets of the audited entity. Providing structuring advice, transaction structuring, including financial modelling services, legal entity reorganisation and other restructuring services which are linked to potential changes to the audited entity’s equity or debt financing structure. Regulated investment activity such as investment advisory services (e.g. providing investment business 
