other non- monetary assets for an interest in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate. This guidance was previously contained in UITF Abstract 31 Exchanges of businesses or other non-monetary assets for an interest in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate. Paragraphs 9.33 to 9.38 are inserted to provide guidance on the accounting treatment for intermediate payment arrangements. These were previously contained in UITF Abstract 32 Employee benefit trusts and other intermediate payment arrangements and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts. Section 10 Accounting Policies, Estimates and Errors Paragraph 10.5 clarifies when an entity is required to refer to Statements of Recommended Practice (SORPs) in developing an accounting policy. Paragraph 10.10A is amended to include intangible assets, reflecting the option for an entity to use the cost model or revaluation model in Section 18 of FRS 102. Paragraphs 10.14A to 10.14D are inserted and paragraph 10.15 is amended to define accounting estimates, in line with the 2021 amendments to IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. Section 11 Basic Financial Instruments Topics The scope of Section 11 is amended to clarify that certain financial instruments are not within its scope. The references to ‘non-convertible preference shares and non-puttable ordinary and preference shares’ in this section of the IFRS for SMEs Accounting Standard are removed and replaced with ‘non-derivative financial instruments that are equity of the issuer’. This allows those instruments that are liabilities of the holder to be measured at amortised cost (if that instrument is classified as ‘basic’). Paragraph 11.2(b) is amended to restrict the ability to newly-adopt the option to apply the recognition and measurement requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Paragraph 11.2(c) is inserted to allow entities the option to apply the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.