ISA (UK) 320 para 3 financial reporting framework discusses the application of materiality in a different way to how it is discussed in the framework applicable to the other information. For other information, the auditor considers whether it is subject to a framework which provides a frame of reference for the auditor’s judgments about materiality under ISA (UK) 720.5 In the UK, legislation sets out what other information is required in an annual report (excluding the financial statements and the auditor's report thereon). For example: A directors' report. A strategic report. A non-financial information statement (NFIS), included in the Strategic Report.6 A separate Corporate Governance Statement. A trustees' report. The relevant legal requirements do not refer to or define "materiality". They do, however, include terms which are intended to ensure that all relevant information and only that information is provided. For example, the strategic report requirements uses terms such as "principal" (e.g. principal risks), "key" (e.g. key performance indicators) and "necessary for an understanding of" (e.g. the strategic report must contain information to the "extent necessary for an understanding of the company's development, performance and position and the impact of its activity…").7 These and similar principles, when considered in the context of an entity can be considered as relevant discussion of what other information would be material for inclusion in the annual report. However, to the extent that the relevant legal requirements do not provide a comprehensive discussion of the application of the concept of materiality to such other information, the frame of reference provided by ISA (UK) 720 (Revised) is also relevant to the auditor’s judgments about materiality. In addition, other information in the Strategic Report is material if its omission or misrepresentation could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions shareholders take on the basis of the 
