both Schemes address a common question of law or fact, arise out of the same events, or there is some other compelling reason for the Formal Complaints to be heard together. The joint tribunal provisions are intended to make the Schemes more efficient and effective by streamlining procedure, facilitating consistent tribunal decision-making and ultimately reducing costs in such cases. The new provisions incorporate a number of suggestions put by respondents to the consultation process earlier this year. A consultation feedback statement is available on the FRC website. Notes to editors: The FRC is responsible for promoting high quality corporate governance and reporting to foster investment. We set the UK Corporate Governance and Stewardship Codes as well as UK standards for accounting, auditing and actuarial work. We represent UK interests in international standard-setting. We also monitor and take action to promote the quality of corporate reporting and auditing. We operate independent disciplinary arrangements for accountants and actuaries; and oversee the regulatory activities of the accountancy and actuarial professional bodies. Home Library FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework This FRS sets out a reduced disclosure framework which addresses the financial reporting requirements and disclosure exemptions for the individual financial statements of subsidiaries and ultimate parents that otherwise apply the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of adopted IFRS. The Table of Differences describes the relationships between UK and Ireland financial reporting standards and IFRS Accounting Standards. Related impact assessments and feedback statements to the following publications. Current edition SEPTEMBER 2024| The most recent full edition of the Standard, plus any amendments made subsequently, together constitute the latest edition. Links to PDFs open in new tabs| Name FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (September 2024) Publication date 10 September 2024 Type STANDARD Notes The September 2024 edition of FRS 101 incorporates all amendments issued up to 
