intangible item (subject to certain criteria). The section provides guidance on what comprises the cost of an internally generated intangible asset and the criteria for initial recognition. The section is also amended to provide that, after initial recognition, an entity may use the cost model or revaluation model. Paragraph 18.3(c) is amended to align the scope of the section with IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Paragraph 18.8 is amended to require entities to recognise some, but not all, intangible assets acquired in a business combination separately from goodwill. The paragraph also includes an option for entities to recognise more intangible assets separately from goodwill. If taken, this option must be applied consistently and additional disclosures provided. Section 19 Business Combinations and Goodwill Section 19 is amended to permit the use of the merger accounting method for group reconstructions. The merger method is set out in paragraphs 19.29 to 19.33. Paragraph 19.11B is inserted to provide guidance on determining whether arrangements for contingent payments to selling shareholders are contingent consideration in the business combination or are separate transactions. Paragraphs 19.12 and 19.13 are amended to clarify when a provision for contingent consideration should be discounted. Paragraphs 19.13A and 19.13B are inserted to clarify the accounting treatment of adjustments to contingent consideration and the unwinding of discounting. Paragraph 19.15(a) is amended to require intangible assets to be recognised separately in a business combination when it is probable that any associated future economic benefits will flow to the acquirer. Paragraph 19.15(c) is deleted to remove the undue cost or effort exemption in relation to the fair value measurement of intangible assets. Paragraphs 19.15A and 19.15B are inserted and include guidance on the treatment of deferred tax assets or liabilities and employee benefit arrangements of a subsidiary on acquisition, similar to that in paragraph 19.14