plans; however, paragraph 28.41A of FRS 102 permits cross referral if certain criteria are met.. General requirements Actuarial method and assumptions FRS 17|FRS 102| Defined benefit scheme liabilities should be measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method. (FRS 17 paragraph 20) Full actuarial valuations by a professionally qualified actuary should be obtained for a defined benefit scheme at intervals not exceeding three years. The actuary should review the most recent actuarial valuation at the balance sheet date and update it to reflect current conditions. (FRS 17 paragraph 35)|An entity shall use the projected unit credit method to measure its defined benefit obligation and the related expense. (FRS 102 paragraph 28.18) Does not require an entity to engage an independent actuary to perform the comprehensive actuarial valuation needed to calculate its defined benefit obligation. Nor does it require that a comprehensive actuarial valuation must be done annually. In periods between comprehensive actuarial valuations, if the principal actuarial assumptions have not changed significantly the defined benefit obligation can be measured by adjusting the prior period measurement for changes in employee demographics. (FRS 102 paragraph 28.20)| Both standards require the use of the projected unit method. However, FRS 102 does not require an independent actuary to perform the valuation nor does it stipulate how often a comprehensive valuation need be performed. Nevertheless, in practice, entities may continue to have independent actuarial valuations performed at the same regularity as they currently do. Cost of a defined benefit plan FRS 17|FRS 102| The change in the defined benefit asset or liability (other than arising from contributions to the scheme) should be analysed into the following components: Periodic Costs the current service cost; the interest cost; the expected return on assets; actuarial gains and losses; Non-Periodic Costs past service costs; and gains and