corresponding or similar to any provision made by section 1097A (rectification of register relating to a company’s registered office) or to provision that may be made by regulations made under that section. In this section— “appropriate address” has the meaning given by section 86(2); “appropriate email address” has the meaning given by section 88A(2). Regulations under this section are subject to negative resolution procedure.] Part 34 – Overseas companies Chapter 2 – Unregistered companies Document Generated: 2025-03-12 Status: This version of this Act contains provisions that are prospective. Changes to legislation: Companies Act 2006 is up to date with all changes known to be in force on or before 12 March 2025. There are changes that may be brought into force at a future date. Changes that have been made appear in the content and are referenced with annotations. (See end of Document for details) View outstanding changes [F13761048IBdentity verification of directors This section applies in relation to an overseas company that is required to register particulars under section 1046. The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the purpose of ensuring that each individual who is a director of such a company is an individual whose identity is verified (see section 1110A). The regulations may include provision— requiring the delivery of statements or other information to the registrar; for statements or other information delivered to the registrar under the regulations to be withheld from public inspection; applying section 167M (prohibition on director acting unless ID verified), with or without modifications; applying section 1110C (exemption from identity verification: national security grounds), with or without modifications. Regulations under this section are subject to negative resolution procedure.] Other requirements 1049 Accounts and reports: general The Secretary of State may make provision by regulations requiring an overseas company that is required