make such amendments of enactments as appear to him to be necessary or expedient in consequence of any change of name, merger or transfer of engagements affecting— a recognised supervisory body or recognised qualifying body, or a body of accountants referred to in, or approved, authorised or otherwise recognised for the purposes of, any other enactment. Part 43 – Transparency obligations and related matters Chapter 6 – Supplementary and general Document Generated: 2025-03-12 Status: This version of this Act contains provisions that are prospective. Changes to legislation: Companies Act 2006 is up to date with all changes known to be in force on or before 12 March 2025. There are changes that may be brought into force at a future date. Changes that have been made appear in the content and are referenced with annotations. (See end of Document for details) View outstanding changes Regulations under this section are subject to negative resolution procedure. 1264 Consequential amendments Schedule 14 contains consequential amendments relating to this Part. Part 43 Transparency obligations and related matters Introductory 1265 The transparency obligations directive In Part 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (c. 8) (which makes provision about official listing, prospectus requirements for transferable securities, etc), in section 103(1) (interpretation), at the appropriate place insert— ““the transparency obligations directive” means Directive 2004/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market;”. Transparency obligations 1266 Transparency rules After section 89 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 insert— “Transparency obligations 89A Transparency rules The competent authority may make rules for the purposes of the transparency obligations directive. The rules may include provision for dealing with any matters arising out of