carried out as an independent activity. Examples: tree planting and landscaping in the course of forestry or estate management are not construction operations tree planting and landscaping as part of a new housing development are construction operations The only exception to finishing operations is carpet fitting. Statement of Practice 12 (1981) provides that carpet fitting (but no other floor covering) is regarded as excluded from the scheme. However, if carpet fitting is part of a mixed contract, then all the contract comes within the scheme. Read paragraph A.4. Non-construction operations Some operations are specifically excluded from the scheme and these are explained in the following paragraph and table. Where a contract includes operations that are construction operations, and operations that are not construction operations, all payments for both types of work will fall within the scheme. Description|Legislation (read Appendix B)|Paragraph| Drilling|S74 (3)(a)|A.23| Extraction|S74 (3)(b)|A.24| Manufacture of building or engineering components and delivery|S74 (3)(c)|A.25| Manufacture of components for systems|S74 (3)(d)|A.26| Professional work|S74 (3)(e)|A.27| Artistic works|S74 (3)(f)|A.28| Signwriting and signboards S74 (3)(g) A.29 Seating, blinds and shutters S74 (3)(h) A.30 Security systems S74 (3)(i) A.31 Drilling Drilling work connected with actual, physical extraction of minerals or natural resources is not a construction operation. Extraction Extraction of minerals or natural resources is not a construction operation. Extraction includes: drilling for oil and gas pumping of oil and gas digging for coal and other minerals from underground deposits removal of coal and other minerals from underground deposits associated surface workings, such as open cast mine quarrying Work connected with the primary purpose of mineral extraction is not a construction operation. This includes: tunnelling, boring and shoring up tunnels in mines installing rail systems, conveyor systems and other systems This is in contrast to tunnelling done in connection with the construction of a mainline railway 
