or reprioritising organisational culture. The global financial crisis, COVID-19 pandemic, the racial and social justice movements, technological disruption and climate change are only some of the examples, often leading to increased reporting requirements. During those times of stress, especially in the last 18 months, many companies have taken an opportunity to re-evaluate their strategy, structure and organisational culture, mainly their approach to people – as their key resource. Focusing on the most recent global shock, the pandemic, led to several important cultural shifts, for example, accelerating the move to flexible working and additional consideration of employee welfare. For those companies that were providing essential services and had to keep a physical workforce in place, new, covid-safe ways of working had to be introduced. Teams had to be able to work cross-functionally, with more evolved decision-making, and become more autonomous and responsible for delivering business outcomes. This rapid shift in working styles and locations, requiring new patterns of behaviours, managerial styles and ways of communication, is without doubt one of the biggest challenges that companies are currently facing culture-wise, and there is no one view on how to approach this issue. This has been compounded by a disparity in workforce experience between those who have been and continue to be remote (home-based) and field staff. In such cases, companies will need to address those disparities in their culture over time. The need to communicate, evaluate and foster culture, ensuring consistent messaging and signalling became even more important. Most companies tried to ensure that their people felt looked after and supported with particular consideration for wellbeing and mental health. This has largely led to boards and senior managers reflecting on how they work with their teams. With the help of technology, many used the opportunity to engage in a different way, enabling 
