cooperation and communication between HR, internal audit, ethics & compliance and risk functions, companies may be able to better assess, monitor and embed their culture. Timely implementation of any follow-up action points and regular assurance are equally important. Creating a positive culture should improve performance. Trust, empathy and psychological safety are crucial to foster positive culture. Everyone should be encouraged to speak up, share concerns and have candid conversations. However, the key challenge for companies and their boards is to acknowledge that culture requires patience, openness and commitment to continuous development through any future changes to senior personnel. One way to assess how companies are changing their culture is to look at reporting. The FRC’s Review of Corporate Governance Reporting found that there was room for improvement in both the way that companies promote culture and how it is assessed. We intend to continue monitoring corporate disclosures in this area and build on this report by making available additional information and guidance for companies. Methodology This research was primarily based on a series of roundtables conducted in conjunction with a number of supporting organisations, including: Association for Insurance and Risk Managers (Airmic); The Chartered Governance Institute (CGI); The Association of International Certified Professional Accountants (AICPA & CIMA); The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD); The Institute of Business Ethics (IBE); The Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA); and The Trade Union Congress (TUC). We also collected views through a questionnaire which was circulate by The Investor Forum among their members, and a series of one-to-one interviews with board directors, conducted in confidence, to ensure independence from the FRC, by a culture consultancy - Dragonfish. All together we have engaged over 134 entities and included views of 140 professionals involved in: company boards (Chairs, CEOs and NEDs) secretariat (Company Secretaries