6 of the Code. Effective speak up culture needs to be supported by reporting mechanisms directly to the board. While almost all companies have a whistleblowing hotline, what is often missing is a ‘listen up culture’, where management and senior staff have a responsibility to act based on a well-run and clear process. Following a prescribed process with independent intervention helps build confidence that matters will be dealt with in an appropriate and timely manner. 8a Creating psychological safety Creating safe spaces that encourage people to engage with a focus on bolstering two- way communication is key. Organisations reported having several committees and groups that placed emphasis on providing a voice for underrepresented colleagues. Establishing, sponsoring and engaging with workforce forums and groups, as well as culture ambassadors, was seen as a helpful mechanism. Such approach was said to promote a better understanding of how culture, underpinned by values and purpose, resonates across the organisation, ensuring meaningful conversations and feedback. Input received from those groups needs to be channelled right to the top, for boards’ and leadership teams’ further consideration. Companies should also report, internally and externally, on how received views informed their decisions, and what was the follow-up. Such transparency and openness allows stakeholders to understand the decision-making process and encourage participation. It also helps to build trust, which is essential in fostering transparency, effective challenge and achieving psychological safety. It is also important that those engaging in groups acting as ambassadors or standing up as employee representatives are not seen only through that lens. Honing their talents within the company and providing opportunities for development and promotion are equally essential. For a few companies, the use of consultants or trade unions who offer an external perspective was perceived to be important in identifying challenges, blind spots and opportunities,