to determine if a claim is bene ! cial. If foreign income or gains from 6 April 2025 are not relieved from UK tax under the FIG regime, they will be in scope of UK tax just like UK income and gains. Where this is the case, double taxation relief should be considered to reduce any double taxation arising. Qualifying new residents You may claim relief under the new regime for a tax year if: You are UK resident for that tax year, and For each of the 10 years before that tax year, you were not resident in the UK. You can also claim relief for each of the following three tax years (if you are UK resident in these years). The FIG regime is therefore available for a maximum of four consecutive tax years immediately following a period of non-residence for at least 10 consecutive tax years. Individuals who became resident in the UK prior to 6 April 2025 may still claim relief for tax years 2025/26 onwards, provided that the residence conditions are met. For example, a taxpayer who ! rst becomes resident in the UK in 2023/24 ( year one) will be eligible to claim the relief for 2025/26 and/or 2026/27 ( years three and four) if they are still resident in the UK in these years. Members of the House of Commons and House of Lords are unable to claim the relief. Making a claim Claiming one or more of the three possible claims or elections under the FIG regime is made in a self assessment tax return for the year of claim. The deadline for each claim is 31 Januar y in the second year following the tax return of claim. For example, claims for the 2025/26 tax year must be made by 31 Januar y 2028. Where a claim is made, you must identif y on the return the income or gains which are being relieved from UK tax by vir tue of the claim. These amounts are then deducted from the amounts charged to UK tax when your tax liability is calculated. This is di " erent from what was the case for unremit ted income under the remit tance basis, which in general did not need to be repor ted on a tax return. These deductions do not a " ect the calculation of your adjusted net income, which is used to work out: the amount of any personal savings allowance you get whether your personal allowance has to be reduced, where income is above £100,000 a year how much high income child bene ! t charge you have to pay how much married coupleÕs allowance you can get whether you are eligible for tax-free childcare You can read more about adjusted net income on GOV.UK . Small amounts of foreign income and gains Prior to 6 April 2025, non- domiciled taxpayers with less than £2,000 of unremit ted foreign income and gains for a tax year would not need to repor t or pay UK tax on that income. This is because the remit tance basis would apply automatically . However, this is no longer the case from 6 April 2025. If you are UK resident and you have small amounts of foreign income or gains, and you ! le a self assessment tax return, you will usually need to repor t these amounts on your self assessment tax return for the year (there are some exceptions if you only have foreign gains and no UK capital gains tax to pay). If you do not ! le a self assessment 
