repor t or pay UK tax on that income. This is because the remit tance basis would apply automatically . However, this is no longer the case from 6 April 2025. If you are UK resident and you have small amounts of foreign income or gains, and you ! le a self assessment tax return, you will usually need to repor t these amounts on your self assessment tax return for the year (there are some exceptions if you only have foreign gains and no UK capital gains tax to pay). If you do not ! le a self assessment tax return, you will need to consider whether you owe UK tax on the foreign income or gains in the absence of a FIG claim or election. If you do, then you should usually register to ! le a self assessment tax return to repor t the income or gains and either pay the tax or make the claim. This is the case however small the tax liability on the income. If you do not owe any UK tax on the income in the absence of a FIG claim or election, then you will not need to register for self assessment just to repor t the income (provided you have no other reason to ! le a return). This might apply if, for example, your worldwide income is within your UK personal allowance (and blind personÕs allowance, if applicable). Depending on the source of foreign income, it may be covered by allowances or nil rate bands. For example, for small amounts of foreign interest, remember the interest may be covered by the personal savings allowance or the star ting rate for savings ( you should add together your foreign interest and UK interest to determine if this is the case). Similarly, foreign dividends may be covered by the dividend allowance . Small foreign gains may be covered by the capital gains tax annual exempt amount . More information Fur ther information is available on GOV.UK . You might also like... 30 Monck Street London SW1P 2AP CIOT Getting help Ne w s Press releases Reports Submissions Blogs Legal Follow us on social media © 2025 The Low Incomes Tax Reform Group is an initiative of the Chartered Institute of Taxation (Registered Charity number 1037771) Sitemap Cookies Privacy notice Home UK tax for UK residents on foreign income and gains 2 2 5 Content on this page: UK tax for UK residents on foreign income and gains In this section Arising basis of taxation Remittance basis of taxation Remittances to the UK Foreign income and gains from 6 April 2025 Overseas workday relief UK tax on overseas pensions Updated on 6 April 2025 Getting help with tax We are not able to provide an advice ser vice about tax or tax credit issues. However, there are various sources of suppor t, which you can ! nd out ... Read more Updated on 6 April 2025 Residence and domicile Your tax residence status a " ects the extent to which you are liable to tax in the UK. For tax years up to and including 2024/25, your domicile ... Read more Updated on 6 April 2025 Double taxation You may have to pay taxes in both the UK and another countr y if you are resident here and have income or gains abroad, or if you are non-resident ... Read more Contact us Latest updates Media centre Search for anything... Apply Tax & NIC Working Employers Pensions International Savings & property BeneÞts About us Back to top