Foreign income and gains from 6 April 2025 Updated on 6 April 2025 Foreign income and gains from 6 April 2025 Foreign income and gains (FIG) which arise from 6 April 2025 may be eligible for relief from UK tax if you meet cer tain residence conditions. Canva.com The new FIG regime The new regime for foreign income and gains (FIG) applies from 6 April 2025 and replaces the remit tance basis for non- domiciled taxpayers. Domicile is no longer relevant to your tax liability from 6 April 2025. Instead, the new regime is available to qualif ying new residents (see heading below). This means that some UK domiciled taxpayers may be eligible for relief under the FIG regime, even though they may not have been eligible for the remit tance basis in prior years. Similarly, non- domiciled taxpayers will not be eligible for relief under the regime if the residence conditions are not met, even if they were previously eligible for the remit tance basis. The new rules mean that almost all UK resident taxpayers now need to repor t their foreign income and gains to HMRC, if they didnÕt previously. This is the case even if relief is claimed under the new regime. The only exception is where no UK tax is due on the foreign income and the taxpayer is not other wise required to ! le a self assessment tax return for the year. If income or gains are relieved from UK tax under the new regime, then it does not mat ter if the income or gains are remit ted to the UK. Under the FIG regime, there are three separate possible claims: 1. A foreign income claim 2. A foreign employment election (we cover this in our page on overseas workday relief ) 3. A foreign gain claim If you are a qualif ying new resident (see below) for a tax year, you can choose to make any combination of the above claims or elections for that year (or none at all). However, claiming any one will mean that you are not entitled to all of the following for the year of claim: The UK income tax personal allowance (and blind personÕs allowance, if applicable) A tax reduction where the marriage allowance or married coupleÕs allowance has been claimed The capital gains tax annual exempt amount This means that, for example, the income tax personal allowance is lost for that year even if only a foreign gain claim is made and not a foreign income claim. In addition, claiming any one of the three claims or elections will mean that foreign income losses (for example, from a foreign trade or foreign proper ty business) and foreign capital losses cannot be claimed for that ye a r. The above means that making a claim or election under the FIG regime will not always be wor thwhile. If you are a qualif ying new resident and you have foreign income and gains, you should seek advice to determine if a claim is bene ! cial. If foreign income or gains from 6 April 2025 are not relieved from UK tax under the FIG regime, they will be in scope of UK tax just like UK income and gains. Where this is the case, double taxation relief should be considered to reduce any double taxation arising. Qualifying new residents You may claim relief under the new regime for a tax year if: You are UK resident for that tax year, and For each of the 10 years before that tax year, you were not resident in the 
