evident during the COVID-19 pandemic. How organisations define and communicate their ESG responsibilities and commitments is at the centre of board’s attention. More boards also appear to be conscious of the critical nature of ESG in the sustainability and long-term value creation, and that embedding it into the company’s purpose and strategy can unlock access to capital and investments. Setting clear objectives and goals, and demonstrating how the organisation is going to meet them, can help build market confidence even further. Companies that underperform or underreport, by using a tick box approach on ESG matters, and remain unresponsive to raised concerns, are increasingly exposed to shareholder activism (see here). Better leveraging of corporate purpose, culture and values, and greater emphasis on the impact rather than the process, can help reporting against all sustainability frameworks, for example the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Companies should regularly assess their ESG objectives and commitments, frame and embed them across the organisation through clear language, regular communication and measurable targets, and monitor and report on the impact on their stakeholders and achievement of goals. While there is no one size fits all approach, and activities and reporting need to be reflective of this, embedding ESG into culture, and aligning it with purpose, values and strategy can be particularly impactful. For example, AstraZeneca aligned their ESG objectives, organisational culture, values and ethics, and assess their performance through this lens – across their operations and value chain. This joint approach heightened awareness internally, improved decision making and strengthened their competitiveness. For more details, please see the case study. Key takeaways: Culture, purpose and values are at the centre of workforce- related issues, the ‘S’ of the ESG If aligned with the strategy and embedded across the organisation, ESG can help to strengthen the resilience and boost 
