provide clarification, by reference to EU-adopted IFRS, that would avoid unnecessary diversity in practice. Consequently, FRS 102 includes accounting options for: capitalisation of borrowing costs; revaluation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets; and capitalisation of development costs, in certain circumstances. Respondents also suggested areas where further clarification would be useful. A number of clarifications were made, including some made by reference to EU-adopted IFRS or previous UK and Ireland accounting standards. Examples include: Amending the disclosure requirements for discontinued operations for compliance with company law. 77 This reflects the standards referenced in UK company law at the time, prior to the UK exit from the European Union (see paragraph A.63 of this Basis for Conclusions). Providing a cost or fair value option for the measurement of investments by an investor that is not a parent, but has an investment in one or more associates and/or jointly controlled entities. Clarifying that the life of goodwill, when an entity is otherwise unable to make a reliable estimate, shall not be in excess of five years and thereby consistent with company law (this was subsequently revised to 10 years when the EU Accounting Directive was implemented in 2015). The same also applies to intangible assets. Clarifying the accounting treatment of group share-based payments when the award is granted by the parent or another group entity. Urgent Issue Task Force (UITF) Abstracts Early consultations proposed withdrawing all UITF Abstracts except UITF Abstract 43 The Interpretation of equivalence for the purposes of section 228A of the Companies Act. Respondents suggested that in addition to UITF Abstract 43, some other UITF Abstracts should be retained. To be consistent with the objective of providing succinct financial reporting standards, the following UITF Abstracts were incorporated into FRS 102: UITF Abstract|Action| 4|Presentation of long-term debtors in current