simplified the final amendments compared to the draft proposals. The key areas where the revised revenue recognition requirements in FRS 102 have been adapted to reflect the legal requirements of the micro-entities regime and simplified further to reflect the size and nature of micro-entities are as follows: Introduction of guidance highlighting that aspects of the requirements may be easier to apply to simple transactions or transactions that are completed within one reporting period. Restructuring the requirements to move transactions that are less likely to be relevant to a micro-entity to an ‘Additional guidance’ sub-section at the end of Section 18. Removing some requirements because micro-entities’ contracts with customers are generally expected to be simpler in nature or because the burden created by requiring micro-entities to apply the accounting treatment in FRS 102 is not considered to be outweighed by the benefit. Requiring a micro-entity to apply the simplest option when FRS 102 provides an accounting policy choice. Removal of the requirements for the presentation of contract balances. The lack of detail in the format of the statement of financial position and supporting disclosures would result in these requirements having no impact on the information presented in a micro-entity’s financial statements. Most respondents that commented on the proposal to require micro-entities to apply the revised revenue recognition requirements prospectively disagreed with it. They cited concerns about comparability issues, especially for entities with long-term contracts. However, the FRC concluded that, given the simpler nature of micro-entities’ revenue streams and contracts with customers, comparability issues will be minimal, and the prospective approach will minimise transition costs and be most straightforward for micro-entities to apply. Table 1 Exposure drafts and consultation documents Responses to the following exposure drafts and feedback from other consultation activities have been considered in the development of FRS 105. More