conditions of uncertainty. The exercise of prudence means that assets and income are not overstated and liabilities and expenses are not understated. Equally, the exercise of prudence does not allow for the understatement of assets or income or the overstatement of liabilities or expenses. Such misstatements can lead to the overstatement or understatement of income or expenses in future periods. The exercise of prudence does not imply a need for asymmetry (eg a systematic need for more persuasive evidence to support the recognition of assets or income than the recognition of liabilities or expenses), although particular sections may contain asymmetric requirements if these are a consequence of decisions intended to select the most relevant information that faithfully represents what it purports to represent. Free from error means there are no errors or omissions in the description of the events, and the process used to produce the reported information has been selected and applied with no errors. In this context, free from error does not mean perfectly accurate in all respects. Enhancing qualitative characteristics Comparability, verifiability, timeliness and understandability are qualitative characteristics that enhance the usefulness of information that both is relevant and provides a faithful representation of what it purports to represent. The enhancing qualitative characteristics may also help determine how to depict a phenomenon if there are multiple ways to provide equally relevant information and an equally faithful representation of that phenomenon. Comparability Information about a reporting entity is more useful if it can be compared with similar information about other entities and with similar information about the same entity for another period or another date. Comparability is the qualitative characteristic that enables users to identify and understand similarities in, and differences among, items. It is diminished when alternative accounting methods are applied to the same economic phenomena. It 
