the investor’s share of the profit or loss, other comprehensive income and equity of the associate. Distributions and other adjustments to carrying amount. Distributions received from the associate reduce the carrying amount of the investment. Adjustments to the carrying amount may also be required as a consequence of changes in the associate’s equity arising from items of other comprehensive income. Potential voting rights. Although potential voting rights are considered in deciding whether significant influence exists, an investor shall measure its share of profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associate and its share of changes in the associate’s equity on the basis of present ownership interests. Those measurements shall not reflect the possible exercise or conversion of potential voting rights. Implicit goodwill and fair value adjustments. On acquisition of the investment in an associate, an investor shall account for any difference (whether positive or negative) between the cost of acquisition and the investor’s share of the fair values of the net identifiable assets of the associate in accordance with paragraphs 19.22 to 19.24. An investor shall adjust its share of the associate’s profits or losses after acquisition to account for additional depreciation or amortisation of the associate’s depreciable or amortisable assets (including goodwill) on the basis of the excess of their fair values over their carrying amounts at the time the investment was acquired. [Moved to paragraph 14.8A and amended] Investor’s transactions with associates. The investor shall eliminate unrealised profits and losses resulting from upstream (associate to investor) and downstream (investor to associate) transactions to the extent of the investor’s existing ownership interest in the associate. Unrealised losses on such transactions may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Date of associate’s financial statements. In applying the equity method, the investor shall use the financial statements 
