a result of past events. Conclusion: No provision is recognised, but the micro-entity shall make the disclosures required by paragraph 16.19. At 31 December 20X2 Present obligation as a result of a past obligating event: On the basis of the evidence available, there is a present obligation. The obligating event is the sale of the product to the customer. An outflow of resources embodying economic benefits in settlement: Probable. Conclusion: A provision is recognised at the best estimate of the amount to settle the obligation at 31 December 20X2, and the expense is recognised in profit or loss. It is not a correction of an error in 20X1 because, on the basis of the evidence available when the 20X1 financial statements were approved, a provision should not have been recognised at that time. Section 17 Liabilities and Equity Scope of this section This section sets out the requirements for: classifying financial instruments as either liabilities or equity; the accounting for compound financial instruments, such as convertible debt; and the issue of equity instruments, distributions to individuals or other parties acting in their capacity as investors in equity instruments (ie in their capacity as owners) and the accounting for purchases of own equity. This section applies to financial instruments except: Investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in jointly controlled entities (see Section 7 Subsidiaries, Associates, Jointly Controlled Entities and Intermediate Payment Arrangements). Employers’ rights and obligations under employee benefit plans (see Section 23 Employee Benefits). Financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share-based payment transactions (see Section 21 Share-based Payment), except that paragraph 17.14 shall be applied to treasury shares issued, purchased, sold, transferred or cancelled in connection with employee share option plans, employee share purchase plans, and all other share-based payment arrangements. Financial guarantee contracts (see Section 16 Provisions and 
