to paragraph AG8 of IAS 39. Scope of Section 12 This section applies to all financial instruments except for: Those covered by Section 11. Investments in subsidiaries (see Section 9 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements), associates (see Section 14 Investments in Associates) and joint ventures (see Section 15 Investments in Joint Ventures). Employers’ rights and obligations under employee benefit plans (see Section 28 Employee Benefits). Insurance contracts (including reinsurance contracts) that the entity issues and reinsurance contracts that the entity holds (see FRS 103). Financial instruments that meet the definition of an entity’s own equity and the equity component of compound financial instruments issued by the reporting entity that contain both a liability and an equity component (see Section 22 Liabilities and Equity). Leases (see Section 20 Leases) unless the lease could, as a result of non-typical contractual terms, result in a loss to the lessor or the lessee. Contracts for contingent consideration in a business combination (see Section 19 Business Combinations and Goodwill). This exemption applies only to the acquirer. Any forward contract between an acquirer and a selling shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that will result in a business combination at a future acquisition date. The term of the forward contract should not exceed a reasonable period normally necessary to obtain any required approvals and to complete the transaction. Financial instruments, contracts and obligations to which Section 26 Share-based Payment applies, except for contracts within the scope of paragraph 12.5. Financial instruments issued by an entity with a discretionary participation feature (see FRS 103). Reimbursement assets (see Section 21 Provisions and Contingencies). Financial guarantee contracts (see Section 21). Rights and obligations within the scope of Section 23 Revenue from Contracts with Customers that are financial instruments, except for receivables. Most contracts to buy or sell a