obscure significant information. When it is impracticable to do so, the disclosures required by paragraph 34.55(f) need not be given for more than one prior period, and a statement to the effect that it is impracticable shall be made. Funding Commitments An entity that commits to provide resources to other entities shall apply the requirements of paragraphs 34.58 to 34.63 and the accompanying guidance at Appendix A to this section. These paragraphs do not apply to financial instruments (including loan commitments) (see Section 11 Basic Financial Instruments and Section 12 Other Financial Instruments Issues). When applying these paragraphs, the requirements of Section 2 Concepts and Pervasive Principles and Section 21 Provisions and Contingencies shall also be taken into consideration. Recognition An entity shall recognise a liability and, usually, a corresponding expense, when it has made a commitment that it will provide resources to another party, if, and only if: the definition and recognition criteria for a liability have been satisfied; the obligation (which may be a constructive obligation) is such that the entity cannot realistically withdraw from it; and the entitlement of the other party to the resources does not depend on the satisfaction of performance-related conditions. Commitments that are performance-related will be recognised when those performance-related conditions are met. Measurement An entity shall measure any recognised liability at the present value of the resources committed. Disclosure 34.62 An entity that has made a commitment shall disclose the following: the commitment made; the time-frame of that commitment; any performance-related conditions attached to that commitment; and details of how that commitment will be funded. 34.63 The above disclosures may be made in aggregate, providing that such aggregation does not obscure significant information. However, separate disclosure shall be made for recognised and unrecognised commitments. Incoming Resources from Non-Exchange Transactions PBE34.64 The requirements 
