its financial statements, that another presentation or classification would be more appropriate having regard to the criteria for the selection and application of accounting policies in Section 8 Accounting Policies, Estimates and Errors; or this FRS requires a change in presentation. When the presentation or classification of items in the financial statements is changed, a micro-entity shall reclassify comparative amounts unless the reclassification is impracticable. Comparative information Except when this FRS permits or requires otherwise, a micro-entity shall present comparative information in respect of the preceding period for all amounts presented in the current period’s financial statements. Materiality This FRS specifies information that is required to be included in the financial statements of a micro-entity, which includes the notes. A micro-entity need not provide a specific disclosure required by this FRS if the information resulting from that disclosure is not material, except when required by the Act2 regardless of materiality. Complete set of financial statements A complete set of financial statements of a micro-entity shall include the following: a statement of financial position as at the reporting date with notes included at the foot of the statement3; and an income statement for the reporting period. Because paragraph 3.7 requires comparative amounts in respect of the previous period for all amounts presented in the financial statements, a complete set of financial statements means that a micro-entity shall present, as a minimum, two of each of the required financial statements and related notes. In a complete set of financial statements, a micro-entity shall present each financial statement with equal prominence. A micro-entity may use titles for the financial statements other than those used in this FRS as long as they are not misleading. Identification of the financial statements A micro-entity shall clearly identify each of the financial statements and the notes. In