the following reasons: The overall level of disclosure required by FRS 101 is not less than that required by previous UK accounting standards, taking into account exemptions that were available for subsidiaries. Indeed, disclosure may be greater in some areas. In addition, the overall level of disclosure may be greater than that required by FRS 102, which will also be an option available to qualifying entities applying FRS 101. The shareholders in an ultimate parent entity will receive the consolidated financial statements of the group as well as the parent entity’s individual financial statements. These consolidated financial statements will include full disclosure in accordance with the relevant accounting framework (often adopted IFRS). Notifying all shareholders of an ultimate parent entity in writing could lead to a significant cost being incurred. A shareholder that controls a qualifying entity can exercise that control in relation to the financial reporting of its subsidiary without the need for an additional opportunity to object. A qualifying entity is required to disclose a summary of the disclosure exemptions adopted. Therefore, although there may be some qualifying entities that adopt FRS 101 from a later date, many will now have adopted FRS 101 for the first time and any prospective shareholders will be aware of the use of the reduced disclosure framework from the prior period financial statements. Company law does not generally require shareholder agreement, or provide an opportunity to object, to disclosure exemptions. However, company law does provide shareholders with other rights to influence the company’s actions and protections for minority shareholders. In conclusion, the requirement was removed in December 2016 because complying with the requirement was no longer considered cost-effective in practice and sufficient information would continue to exist for minority shareholders to understand the effects of the reduced disclosure framework. Some respondents suggested 
