those components separately, when this would enhance the usefulness of the resulting financial information. Income and expenses are classified and included either in profit or loss, or in other comprehensive income. The income statement is the primary source of information about an entity’s financial performance for the reporting period. Therefore, all income and expenses are, in principle, included in that statement, unless this FRS requires or permits otherwise, or unless prohibited by the Act. In principle, income and expenses included in other comprehensive income in one period are reclassified from other comprehensive income into profit or loss in a future period when doing so results in the income statement providing more relevant information, or providing a more faithful representation of the entity’s financial performance for that future period. Accordingly, income and expenses included in other comprehensive income will not necessarily be reclassified into profit or loss. Individual sections of this FRS set out when income and expenses included in other comprehensive income may, shall or shall not be subsequently reclassified. Offsetting Offsetting occurs when an entity recognises and measures both an asset and liability as separate units of account, but groups them into a single net amount in the statement of financial position. Offsetting classifies dissimilar items together and therefore is generally not appropriate. An entity shall not offset assets and liabilities, or income and expenses, unless required or permitted by this FRS. Measuring assets net of valuation allowances (eg allowances for inventory obsolescence and allowances for uncollectible receivables) is not offsetting. If an entity’s normal operating activities do not include buying and selling fixed assets, including investments and operating assets, then the entity reports gains and losses on disposal of such assets by deducting from the proceeds on disposal the carrying amount of the asset and related selling expenses. 
