impairment charge5. This is consistent with the requirements in IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment. The preparation requirements in paragraph 14 of IAS 34 pertaining to consolidated interim financial reports have been deleted, because entities that apply FRS 104 will generally prepare entity-only annual financial statements and interim financial reports. A number of respondents recommended that the illustrative examples to IAS 34 should be repeated in FRS 104 as they provide useful guidance for preparers. Consequently, the appendices were included as non-mandatory guidance in FRS 104 adapted for use by entities that prepare their annual financial statements in accordance with FRS 102. Other information included in the interim financial report FRS 104 sets out the minimum components of an interim financial report and, consistent with IAS 34, requires only the inclusion of a set of interim financial statements and explanatory notes. However, laws and regulations may set out additional narrative reporting requirements. For example, the DTRs require entities to prepare an interim management report. A minority of respondents suggested that the FRC should issue separate guidance on narrative reporting in interim financial reports. However, additional narrative reporting requirements were not included in FRS 104 as entities applying the standard would be subject to reporting requirements that exceed those of entities that apply IFRS Accounting Standards. Comparative information FRS 104 requires entities to present comparative period information and that the comparatives are presented on the same basis as the current period information. Entities that adopt FRS 102 are, on first-time adoption, required to restate the comparative period information in accordance with FRS 102. Additionally, as set out in paragraph 16B of FRS 104, entities are required to provide explanations of the effect of the accounting policy changes and reconciliations of equity and profit or loss. These disclosures are necessary for 
