associates and interests in jointly controlled entities shall be measured at cost less impairment. Derivatives are measured at cost adjusted for amounts recognised in profit or loss over the term of the instruments and any impairment loss. Financial instruments other than financial instruments covered by paragraphs (a) and (b) are measured at cost adjusted for the allocation of interest, the amortisation of any transaction costs included in the cost of the instruments and any impairment loss. Non-financial assets Property, plant and equipment, investment property and biological assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and selling price less costs to complete and sell. Measurement of assets at amounts lower than their initial historical cost is intended to ensure that an asset is not measured at an amount greater than the micro-entity expects to recover from the sale or use of that asset. Liabilities other than financial liabilities Most liabilities other than financial liabilities are measured at the best estimate of the amount that would be required to settle the obligation at the reporting date. Presentation Offsetting occurs when a micro-entity recognises and measures both an asset and liability separately, but groups them into a single net amount in the statement of financial position. Offsetting classifies dissimilar items together and therefore is generally not appropriate. A micro-entity shall not offset assets and liabilities, or income and expenses, unless required or permitted by this FRS. Measuring assets net of valuation allowances (eg allowances for inventory obsolescence and allowances for uncollectible receivables) is not offsetting. If a micro-entity’s normal operating activities do not include buying and selling fixed assets, including investments and operating assets, then the entity reports gains and losses on disposal of such assets by deducting from the proceeds