IFRS, where goodwill is not amortised. B18.6 Amendments to FRS 102 were made so that entities are required to recognise some but not all intangible assets acquired in a business combination separately from goodwill. This was achieved by requiring entities to recognise intangible assets separately if they: meet the recognition criteria; and are separable and arise from contractual or other legal rights. B18.7 This should not give rise to particular measurement difficulties in practice. B18.8 In addition, an entity may choose to separately recognise other intangible assets acquired in a business combination that meet the recognition criteria and are either separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights. This is a proportionate solution that permits the separate recognition of a larger number of intangible assets when this information provides useful information to the reporting entity and the users of its financial statements. This choice, when exercised, must be applied consistently to the relevant class of intangible assets. This will result in comparability over time in the entity’s financial statements. In addition, a new disclosure was introduced that requires disclosure of the nature of the additional intangible assets separated from goodwill and the reason why, which will assist users in drawing comparisons between different entities. B18.9 Some respondents expressed reservations about the extent of choice available to entities and the potential for inconsistency between different entities. Nevertheless, the option will enable more information to be provided to users in some circumstances and additional disclosure will assist in drawing comparisons. Therefore, the FRC believes these amendments will lead to proportionate reporting. B18.10 Some respondents requested further guidance on which intangible assets are expected to meet the criteria for separate recognition in a business combination. The FRC considers that examples of intangible assets that would normally satisfy all three criteria include licences,