conditions of the arrangements at the same date as, or a date later than, suppliers are paid. These arrangements provide the entity with extended payment terms, or the entity’s suppliers with early payment terms, compared to the related invoice payment due date. Supplier finance arrangements are often referred to as supply chain finance, payables finance or reverse factoring arrangements. Arrangements that are solely credit enhancements for the entity (eg financial guarantee contracts) or instruments used to settle directly with a supplier the amounts owed (eg credit cards) are not supplier finance arrangements. C An entity shall disclose in aggregate for its supplier finance arrangements: the key terms and conditions of the arrangements (eg extended payment terms, interest charges, and security or guarantees provided). However, an entity shall disclose separately the key terms and conditions of arrangements that have dissimilar key terms and conditions. as at the end of the reporting period: the carrying amounts and associated line items presented in the entity’s statement of financial position of the financial liabilities that are part of a supplier finance arrangement; and the range of payment due dates (eg 30–40 days after the invoice date) for both the financial liabilities disclosed under sub-paragraph (i) and comparable trade payables that are not part of a supplier finance arrangement. Comparable trade payables are, for example, trade payables within the same line of business or jurisdiction as the financial liabilities disclosed under sub-paragraph (i). If ranges of payment due dates are wide, an entity shall disclose explanatory information about those ranges or disclose additional ranges (eg stratified ranges). the type and effect of non-cash changes in the carrying amounts of the financial liabilities disclosed under sub-paragraph (b)(i). Examples of non-cash changes include the effect of business combinations, exchange differences or other transactions that do not require 
