for all practical purposes, in the same position as if it had purchased the shares directly. Where an intermediary holds the micro-entity’s equity instruments, the micro-entity shall account for the equity instruments as if it had purchased them directly. The micro-entity shall account for the assets and liabilities of the intermediary in its financial statements as follows: The consideration paid for the equity instruments of the sponsoring entity shall be deducted from equity until such time that the equity instruments vest unconditionally with employees. Other assets and liabilities of the intermediary shall be recognised as assets and liabilities of the micro-entity. No gain or loss shall be recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the micro-entity’s own equity instruments. Finance costs and any administration expenses shall be recognised on an accrual basis rather than as funding payments are made to the intermediary. Any dividend income arising on the micro-entity’s own equity instruments shall be excluded from profit or loss and deducted from the aggregate of dividends paid. Section 8 Accounting Policies, Estimates and Errors Scope of this section This section sets out requirements for: selecting and applying the accounting policies used in preparing financial statements; accounting for changes in accounting estimates; and accounting for corrections of errors in prior period financial statements. Selection and application of accounting policies Accounting policies are the specific principles, bases, conventions, rules and practices applied by a micro-entity in preparing and presenting financial statements. If this FRS specifically addresses a transaction, other event or condition, a micro-entity shall apply this FRS. However, the micro-entity need not follow a requirement in this FRS if the effect of doing so would not be material. If this FRS does not specifically address a transaction, other event or condition, a micro-entity’s management shall 
