are revalued to fair value. Similarly, Section 16 Investment Property of FRS 102 requires an entity to measure the fair value of investment property (other than those rented to another group entity, for which there is an accounting policy choice). For those measurements, an entity that relies on professionally qualified valuers at annual reporting dates is not required to rely on them at interim reporting dates. A2.46 [Deleted] Specialised industries A2.47 Because of complexity, costliness, and time, interim period measurements in specialised industries might be less precise than at financial year-end. An example would be calculation of insurance reserves by insurance companies. Appendix III Table of comparison between terminology used in the DTRs and FRS 104 The following table compares broadly equivalent terminology used in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs) with terminology used in this FRS. Terminology used in the DTRs|FRS 104 terminology| Balance sheet|Statement of financial position| Condensed set of financial statements|Condensed interim financial statements and selected explanatory notes| Half-yearly financial report|Interim financial report| Profit and loss account|Income statement (under the two-statement approach) Part of the statement of comprehensive income (under the single-statement approach)| UK-adopted IFRS|UK-adopted international accounting standards| Appendix IV Note on UK regulatory requirements A4.1 This appendix provides an overview of how the requirements in FRS 104 complement the legal reporting requirements set out in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs) of the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Scope A4.2 FRS 104 does not specify whether, how frequently or how soon after the end of an interim period an entity should present interim financial reports. The DTRs set out requirements in this regard. A4.3 Issuers that are required to publish half-yearly financial reports in accordance with the DTRs must include a responsibility statement in the report. In accordance with paragraph 4.2.10R of the DTRs, a person