remainder of the original vesting period. If the modification reduces the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or apparently is not otherwise beneficial to the employee, the entity shall nevertheless continue to account for the services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted as if that modification had not occurred. The requirements in this paragraph are expressed in the context of share-based payment transactions with employees. The requirements also apply to share-based payment transactions with parties other than employees if these transactions are measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted, but reference to the grant date refers to the date that the entity obtains the goods or the counterparty renders service. Cancellations and settlements An entity shall account for a cancellation or settlement of an equity-settled share-based payment transaction as an acceleration of vesting, and therefore shall recognise immediately the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the vesting period. A Settlement of an equity-settled share-based payment transaction may involve an entity transferring cash (or other assets) as an alternative, or part alternative, to the transfer of equity instruments. For example, if: the entity has a choice of settlement; the entity repurchases vested equity instruments; or the share-based payment arrangement has a net settlement feature. The payment made shall be accounted for as a deduction from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the fair value of the equity instruments that would otherwise have been issued, measured at the settlement or repurchase date. Any such excess shall be recognised as an expense. Measurement of cash-settled share-based payment transactions For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, an entity shall measure the goods or services acquired and the liability incurred at the fair value of the liability. 
