is enhanced by informing users of the accounting policies employed in the preparation of the financial statements, and of any changes in those policies and the effects of such changes. Verifiability Verifiability helps assure users that information faithfully represents the economic event it purports to represent. Verifiability means that different knowledgeable and independent observers could reach consensus, although not necessarily complete agreement, that a particular depiction is a faithful representation. Quantified information need not be a single point estimate to be verifiable. A range of possible amounts and the related probabilities can also be verified. Timeliness Timeliness means having information available to decision-makers in time to be capable of influencing their decisions. Generally, the older the information is the less useful it is. However, some information may continue to be timely long after the end of a reporting period because, for example, some users need to identify and assess trends. Understandability Classifying, characterising and presenting information clearly and concisely makes it understandable. However, excluding information from financial statements about phenomena that are inherently complex and cannot be made easy to understand would make these reports incomplete and therefore possibly misleading. The need for understandability does not allow relevant information to be omitted on the grounds that it may be too difficult for some users to understand. The cost constraint on useful financial reporting Cost is a pervasive constraint on the information that can be provided by financial reporting. Reporting financial information imposes costs, and it is important that those costs are justified by the benefits of reporting that information. The evaluation of costs and benefits is substantially a judgemental process. The costs are not necessarily borne by those users who enjoy the benefits, and often the benefits are enjoyed by a broad range of external users. Reporting financial information that