not in a position to demand reports tailored to meet their particular information needs. Such information includes information about: the economic resources of the entity, claims against the entity and changes in those resources and claims; and how efficiently and effectively the entity’s management has discharged its responsibilities to use the entity’s economic resources (management’s stewardship). However, general purpose financial statements do not and cannot provide all the information that users need. Users also need to consider pertinent information from other sources, for example, general economic conditions and expectations, political events and the political climate, and industry and company outlooks. General purpose financial statements allow users to make decisions and develop expectations based on their assessment of the amount, timing and uncertainty of future net cash inflows to the entity. They also help users to assess management’s stewardship of those resources. Qualitative characteristics of useful financial information The qualitative characteristics of useful financial information described in paragraphs 2.9 to 2.23 identify the types of information that are likely to be the most useful to users for making decisions about the entity on the basis of information in its financial statements. Fundamental qualitative characteristics The fundamental qualitative characteristics are relevance and faithful representation. If financial information is to be useful, it must both be relevant and faithfully represent what it purports to represent. The usefulness of financial information is enhanced if it is comparable, verifiable, timely and understandable. Relevance Relevant financial information is capable of making a difference in the decisions made by users by helping them evaluate past, present or future events or confirming, or correcting, their past evaluations. Information may be capable of making a difference in a decision even if some users choose not to take advantage of it or are already aware of it from other sources.