added to Section 1 Scope of FRS 102. The Interpretation of Equivalence FRS 101 and FRS 102 permit certain exemptions from disclosures, which are in some cases subject to equivalent disclosures being included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in which the entity is consolidated. Clarification on interpreting the meaning of the term equivalence is included in the Application Guidance The Interpretation of Equivalence to this FRS. Amendments were made to the Application Guidance in July 2015 as a result of the implementation of the EU Accounting Directive (Directive 2013/34/EU). Alongside these amendments, clarification was given relating to the meaning of equivalent disclosures included in the consolidated financial statements in relation to intra-group balances eliminated on consolidation. Provided that relevant disclosures have been made in the consolidated financial statements, the exemption is permitted when intra-group balances have been eliminated on consolidation. This is subject to any disclosures that are required by law. 33A Amendments were made to replace the Application Guidance in November 2022 to reflect changes in UK company law following the UK exit from the European Union. Together with jurisdictional decisions about equivalence made by both UK and non-UK authorities in relation to the UK’s financial reporting requirements, these changes may have an impact on the determination of equivalence and hence on the availability of relevant exemptions. In drafting the revised Application Guidance the FRC considered how much guidance could be given in terms of conclusions that directors of UK and Republic of Ireland entities might reach under section 401(2)(b) subparagraph (ii) of the Act or section 300(4)(b) subparagraph (ii) of the Companies Act 2014 respectively. The revised guidance takes into account the conclusions reached in the previous version of the guidance and is consistent with those conclusions, when appropriate. Any equivalence decisions made by directors 
