representative of an entity’s risk management objectives and hedging practices. B11.56 The aim of these amendments was to develop hedge accounting requirements that allow for a reflection of an entity’s hedging activities in the financial statements that are consistent with the entity’s risk management objectives and are, as far as appropriate for entities applying FRS 102, consistent with IFRS. B11.57 The amendments to FRS 102 substantively adopted the terminology and hedge accounting requirements in IFRS 9, with notable exceptions described in more detail below. The requirements in IFRS 9 deal with hedging transactions that can be far more complex than those typically entered into by entities applying FRS 102, therefore the departures from the requirements in IFRS 9 are intended to simplify the application of hedge accounting. Qualifying hedge accounting conditions B11.58 There are qualifying conditions for applying hedge accounting, including that an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument has to exist. These conditions have been simplified when compared to the criteria set out in IFRS 9, with the aim of making hedge accounting easier to apply. B11.59 It was noted that although a quantitative assessment of hedge effectiveness is not required by FRS 102, it is nevertheless important for entities to identify the different factors that affect the valuation of the hedging instrument and hedged item, including factors that may be a source of hedge ineffectiveness. Entities are therefore required to identify and document causes of hedge ineffectiveness before they commence hedge accounting, to ensure that ineffectiveness is properly captured in profit or loss. B11.60 Entities are required to document a hedging relationship, to avoid hedge accounting being misused. The hedging documentation requirements are, however, relatively informal and undemanding and should not be an administrative burden for entities in practice. Discontinuing hedge accounting B11.61 Entities 
