B34C.3 It was noted that the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB) had issued a standard IPSAS 32 Service Concession Arrangements: Grantor, which includes two models for accounting by the grantor, depending on the terms of the arrangement with the operator. In addition to the finance lease model, IPSAS 32 includes a ‘grant of right to the operator model’ which applies to ‘user-pays’ arrangements. Some respondents suggested that this model should be permitted, but this FRS does not permit the application of this model because it results in the recognition of liabilities of amounts that may not meet the definition of a liability. B34C.4 The need for transitional arrangements for grantors was considered. It was noted that for some grantors, the proposals would result in the recognition of assets and liabilities for infrastructure assets that would not previously have been recognised. It was considered that this provides more relevant information to users, and therefore no transitional arrangements were permitted. As a result, grantors are not permitted to apply the transitional exemptions that are available to operators, as set out in paragraph 35.10(i), by analogy. Financial Institutions B34D.1 In broad terms, financial institutions are entities that hold assets in a fiduciary capacity or take deposits, including credit unions, building societies and investment entities. FRS 102 set out improvements from previous accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of financial instruments; however, the IFRS for SMEs Accounting Standard had limited specific disclosure requirements for financial instruments held by financial institutions. A proportionate set of disclosures for financial institutions was developed from IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. Financial institutions applying reduced disclosures are not permitted to take exemptions from these additional disclosures. B34D.2 Having identified a need to improve the disclosure requirements for financial institutions, a clear definition of a financial institution 
