section. Disclosure of accounting policies for financial instruments In accordance with paragraph 8.5, an entity shall disclose material accounting policy information, including the measurement basis (or bases) for financial instruments used in preparing the financial statements (including the accounting policy choice made in accordance with paragraph 11.2). Statement of financial position – categories of financial assets and financial liabilities 11.41 An entity shall disclose separately the carrying amounts at the reporting date of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss. This disclosure may be made separately by category of financial instrument. Financial liabilities that are not held as part of a trading portfolio and are not derivatives shall be shown separately. 11.42 An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the significance of financial instruments for its financial position and performance. For example, for long-term debt such information would normally include the terms and conditions of the debt instrument (such as interest rate, maturity, repayment schedule, and restrictions that the debt instrument imposes on the entity). When the risks arising from financial instruments are particularly significant to the business (for example because they are principal risks for the entity), additional disclosure may be required. Paragraphs 34.19 to 34.30, which set out disclosure requirements for financial institutions, include examples of disclosure requirements for risks arising from financial instruments that may be relevant in such cases. * 11.43 For all financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value, the entity shall disclose the basis for determining fair value, eg quoted market price in an active market or a valuation technique. When a valuation technique is used, the entity shall disclose the assumptions applied in determining fair value for each class of financial assets or financial liabilities. For example, if