from UK and Republic of Ireland stakeholders. Updating accounting requirements The most significant changes in the Periodic Review 2024 amendments were the introduction of fully-rewritten sections Section 20 Leases and Section 23 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. In each case, the amendments were based on international accounting principles, modified where appropriate to make them suitable and proportionate for FRS 102 preparers. Further information can be found in Part B of this Basis for Conclusions. These changes reflected the FRC’s principle, as set out in paragraph A.2, of seeking IFRS-based solutions. Stakeholder feedback during the Periodic Review 2024 indicated continued support for this approach. Incremental improvements and clarifications A number of incremental improvements and clarifications were made throughout FRS 102. Stakeholder feedback indicated that the standards, as amended by the Triennial Review 2017, are generally working well. There was no indication that stakeholders generally found the extant standards to be burdensome or were looking for reductions in the cost of applying them. Throughout FRS 102, some changes to drafting were made to provide incremental improvements and clarifications as a result of stakeholder feedback and matters identified by the FRC. Whenever possible, these drafting changes also promoted convergence with IFRS-based solutions. Section 2 Concepts and Pervasive Principles was also rewritten, and a new Section 2A Fair Value Measurement was introduced, replacing the previous appendix Fair value measurement to Section 2. In each case, the amendments were based on international principles, modified where appropriate to make them suitable and proportionate for FRS 102 preparers. Further information can be found in Part B of this Basis for Conclusions. Small entities in the UK Financial statements prepared in accordance with FRS 102 are required to provide sufficient disclosure to give a true and fair view. However, prior to the Periodic Review 2024, Section 1A Small