regime. The availability of the micro-entities regime is restricted to the smallest of companies and some types of entities are excluded. For example, charities and financial institutions are ineligible to report under this regime. For that reason, in contrast to FRS 102, FRS 105 does not contain any specific requirements that apply only to these entities. The micro-entities regime is not available to entities that are required or choose to prepare consolidated financial statements. Therefore, FRS 105 does not contain accounting requirements that are relevant to the preparation of consolidated financial statements. A respondent queried whether FRS 105 could be applied to financial statements prepared for the purposes of submission to the tax authorities by unincorporated businesses and individuals that, if they were companies, would be eligible to apply the micro-entities regime. The form and content of financial statements prepared for tax purposes is a matter for the relevant tax authorities to determine and therefore it is not possible to explicitly permit or prohibit the application of FRS 105 for such purposes. Presentation and disclosure The micro-entities regime specifies certain minimum presentation and disclosure requirements. Financial statements that include the prescribed minimum accounting items are presumed in law to give a true and fair view and no further disclosures need to be made. FRS 105 reflects the legal minimum presentation and disclosure requirements. Recognition and measurement The micro-entities regime prohibits the use of the Alternative Accounting Rules or the Fair Value Rules set out in company law and therefore micro-entities are not permitted to revalue or subsequently measure assets or liabilities at fair value. To take account of the legal restrictions on fair value measurement, FRS 105 does not allow the subsequent measurement of any asset or liability at fair value. This affects in particular financial instruments and investment properties 
