for equity-settled share-based payments prior to the issue of the shares, because of the prohibition on using fair value measurements and the lack of supporting disclosure in the financial statements. A requirement that the contributions payable to any post-employment benefit plans are accounted for as an expense, subject to a requirement for defined benefit plans to recognise a liability for a schedule of contributions to the extent that it relates to the deficit. The simplification was made on the basis that very few micro-entities have defined benefit pension schemes. The distinction between functional and presentation currency is removed as it will be very rare for micro-entities to have a different functional and presentation currency. A requirement to use contracted rates to translate foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities rather than spot rates. This will simplify the accounting when micro-entities enter into foreign currency forward contracts. All borrowing and development costs must be expensed, because this is the simplest treatment for these costs. The application of the accrual model to account for government grants is mandated because this is considered the simplest method of accounting for these transactions. Simplifications in the accounting for financial instruments in relation to the allocation of interest and transaction costs. The effective interest rate method is considered too onerous to apply by micro-entities. Removal of the requirement to impute a market rate of interest in lending arrangements conducted at non-market rates because the costs of mandating this requirement would exceed the benefits. Simplified requirements for classifying financial instruments as equity or debt because most micro-entities will issue simple equity instruments. Prohibition of the recognition of separately identifiable intangible assets in a trade and asset acquisition because these are not required items in the financial statements formats. Removal of the requirements concerning accounting for hyperinflation because this 
