the Regulations). Recognition of incoming resources from non-exchange transactions by charitable companies A3.37B Paragraph PBE34.67 requires the receipt of resources from non-exchange transactions to be recognised in income. This includes situations when items of property, plant and equipment, or inventory, are received. The income will be measured at the fair value of the assets received, in accordance with paragraphs PBE34.73 to PBE34.73B. A3.37C Charities that are companies are required to comply with the requirements of the Regulations, and may need to consider whether any gains are unrealised. Unrealised gains cannot be recognised in profit or loss, and should be presented as part of other comprehensive income. Other assets included at fair value A3.37D Paragraphs 13.3, 16.4A, 16.4B and 34.2 to 34.10A permit an entity to subdivide inventory, investment property and biological assets into classes such that some classes may be measured at cost, and others at fair value. This is consistent with the most reasonable and common sense interpretation of paragraph 39 of Schedule 1 to the Regulations. Accounts formats A3.38 Sections 1A, 4 and 5 of FRS 102 require entities to apply one of the profit and loss account and balance sheet formats set out in the Small Companies Regulations, the Regulations, the Small LLP Regulations and the LLP Regulations, when preparing their statement of comprehensive income (single-statement approach) or income statement (two-statement approach) and statement of financial position, respectively. The General Rules preceding The Required Formats for Accounts include certain flexibilities for companies, this includes permitting adaptation of the formats, providing the adapted presentation is equivalent to that set out in the formats and that it is consistent with generally accepted accounting practice. For entities within its scope FRS 102 sets out a framework for the information to be presented by those entities choosing to adapt the formats. 
