for government grants are set out in Section 24 Government Grants. PBE34.65 Paragraphs PBE34.67 to PBE34.74 apply to other resources received from non-exchange transactions by public benefit entities or entities within a public benefit entity group. PBE34.66 Non-exchange transactions include, but are not limited to, donations (of cash, goods, and services) and legacies. Recognition PBE34.67 An entity shall recognise receipts of resources from non-exchange transactions as follows: Transactions that do not impose specified future performance-related conditions on the recipient are recognised in income when the resources are received or receivable. Transactions that do impose specified future performance-related conditions on the recipient are recognised in income only when the performance-related conditions are satisfied. When resources are received or receivable before the performance-related conditions are satisfied, a liability is recognised. PBE34.68 The existence of a restriction does not prohibit a resource from being recognised in income when received or receivable. PBE34.69 Resources shall only be recognised when the value of the incoming resources can be measured reliably. PBE34.69A Resources that can usually be measured reliably include donations of cash or goods, facilities such as free use of office accommodation or event space, and services usually provided by an individual or an entity as part of their trade or profession for a fee. It is expected that other contributions made by volunteers cannot be measured reliably and shall therefore not be recognised. PBE34.70 In some cases it may be impracticable to estimate the value of a resource with sufficient reliability when the resource is received or receivable; for example, in the case of high volume, low value second-hand goods donated for resale. In such cases, the income shall be recognised in the period when the resource is sold or distributed. PBE34.70A Donations in the form of legacies are recognised when it is probable 
