entity as a result of past events and from which future economic benefits are expected to flow to the entity. An internally generated intangible shall not be recognised as an asset. All expenditure incurred shall be recognised as an expense immediately in profit or loss. A micro-entity shall recognise the expenditure on the following items as an expense and shall not recognise such expenditure as intangible assets (the list is not exhaustive): Expenditure on research and development activities. Internally generated brands, logos, publishing titles, customer lists and items similar in substance. Start-up activities (ie start-up costs), which include establishment costs such as legal and secretarial costs incurred in establishing a legal entity, expenditure to open a new facility or business (ie pre-opening costs) and expenditure for starting new operations or launching new products or processes (ie pre-operating costs). Training activities. Advertising and promotional activities. Relocating or reorganising part or all of a micro-entity. Internally generated goodwill. Initial measurement A micro-entity shall measure a separately acquired intangible asset initially at cost which comprises: its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and rebates; and any directly attributable cost of preparing the asset for its intended use. Exchanges of assets An intangible asset may be acquired in exchange for a non-monetary asset or assets, or a combination of monetary and non-monetary assets. A micro-entity shall measure the cost of such an intangible asset at fair value unless: the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance; or the fair value of neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable. In that case, the asset’s cost is measured at the carrying amount of the asset given up. Subsequent measurement A micro-entity shall measure a separately acquired intangible asset after initial recognition at cost less any accumulated 
