the company law exemption from disclosing intra-group related party transactions was included in FRS 102. B33.2 Some respondents raised the issue of a possible exemption from the disclosure of outstanding balances as well as transactions. However, it was noted that there is a separate legal requirement, in relation to the format of the balance sheet, which requires disclosure of outstanding balances in aggregate for group undertakings and, separately, for undertakings in which the company has a participating interest. This should be met by compliance with the requirements of Section 4 Statement of Financial Position. As a result, the exemption in paragraph 33.1A does not extend to the requirements of Section 4, and it was not possible to provide an effective exemption from the disclosure, in aggregate, of outstanding balances with group undertakings. Key management personnel compensation B33.3 Some stakeholders questioned whether it was necessary for entities to disclose key management personnel compensation in addition to directors’ remuneration, when it is required by company law. There can be significant differences between key management personnel compensation and directors’ remuneration, for example when the directors and key management personnel are different, and not all entities applying FRS 102 are subject to company law. B33.4 Therefore the key management personnel disclosure requirement was retained as part of the Triennial Review 2017, but an exemption was introduced for entities when there is no difference between the key management personnel and directors. An entity that is not exempt from the requirement to disclose key management personnel compensation shall disclose the total key management personnel compensation, including that relating to the directors. B33.5 It was noted that if there are transactions with directors that are not required to be disclosed as directors’ remuneration, they may still require disclosure in accordance with paragraph 33.9. B34 Section 34 Specialised 
