to future compensated absences. The entity shall measure the expected cost of accumulating compensated absences at the undiscounted additional amount that the entity expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the reporting period. The entity shall present this amount as falling due within one year at the reporting date. An entity shall recognise the cost of other (non-accumulating) compensated absences when the absences occur. The entity shall measure the cost of non-accumulating compensated absences at the undiscounted amount of salaries and wages paid or payable for the period of absence. Recognition: Profit-sharing and bonus plans An entity shall recognise the expected cost of profit-sharing and bonus payments only when: the entity has a present legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past events (this means that the entity has no realistic alternative but to make the payments); and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made. Post-employment benefits: Distinction between defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans Post-employment benefits include, for example: retirement benefits, such as pensions; and other post-employment benefits, such as post-employment life insurance and post-employment medical care. Arrangements whereby an entity provides post-employment benefits are post-employment benefit plans. An entity shall apply this section to all such arrangements whether or not they involve the establishment of a separate entity to receive contributions and to pay benefits. In some cases, these arrangements are imposed by law rather than by action of the entity. In some cases, these arrangements arise from actions of the entity even in the absence of a formal, documented plan. Post-employment benefit plans are classified as either defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, depending on their principal terms and conditions: Defined contribution plans are post-employment benefit plans under 
