in conjunction with other elements of FRS 102, would significantly change accounting practices. It would be likely that no assets could be recognised from the costs of exploration activities, yet entities applying EU-adopted IFRS would be permitted to recognise such assets. Therefore the requirements of IFRS 6 were incorporated into FRS 102 by cross-reference. Service Concession Arrangements B34C.1 Respondents raised two main issues relating to the accounting for service concession arrangements. The first was that the requirements of the IFRS for SMEs Accounting Standard in relation to the accounting by operators had been over-simplified when compared with IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. Therefore additional clarification of the principles of accounting by operators for service concession arrangements was developed from IFRIC 12 and added into FRS 102. As part of the Periodic Review 2024, the principles were clarified further in connection with the introduction into Section 23 Revenue from Contracts with Customers of FRS 102 of the five step revenue recognition model based on IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, reflecting similar amendments made to IFRIC 12 by IFRS 15. B34C.2 The second issue related to grantors, with some respondents noting that grantors might be within the scope of FRS 102. EU-adopted IFRS do not address accounting by grantors of service concession arrangements; grantors are expected to be outside their scope. As a result, accounting requirements for grantors were developed that were consistent with the principles underpinning the accounting by operators of service concession arrangements. The scope of IFRIC 12 is such that the grantor controls the residual interest in the infrastructure asset, and therefore for service concession arrangements meeting the definition in FRS 102, the grantor recognises its interest in the infrastructure asset usually as property, plant and equipment, with a corresponding liability measured using a finance lease model.