to the financial statements. (Schedule 3A, paragraph 35(3)) The comparable amounts refers to the aggregate amount of cost and the aggregate of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses that would have been required according to the historical cost accounting rules. (Schedule 3A, paragraph 35(4)) Paragraphs 17.32A(d), 18.29A(d) and 20.85 address similar requirements. These requirements apply in the same circumstances as those set out in paragraph 1AD.15. 1AD.17 Where any amount is transferred to or from any revaluation reserves and the revaluation reserves are shown as separate items in the small entity’s statement of financial position, the following information shall be set out in tabular form: the amount of the reserves as at the date of the beginning of the reporting period and as at the reporting date respectively; any amount transferred to or from the reserves during that period; and the source and application respectively of any amounts so transferred. (Schedule 3A, paragraph 49) Paragraph 6.3A addresses similar requirements. These requirements apply in the same circumstances as those set out in paragraph 1AD.15. 1AD.18 The treatment for taxation purposes of amounts credited or debited to the revaluation reserve shall be disclosed in a note to the financial statements. (Schedule 3A, paragraph 36(6)) Paragraph 29.27(a) addresses similar requirements. These requirements apply in the same circumstances as those set out in paragraph 1AD.15. Capitalisation of borrowing costs 1AD.19 Where a small entity adopts a policy of capitalising borrowing costs, the inclusion of interest in determining the cost of the asset and the amount of the interest so included is disclosed in a note to the financial statements. (Schedule 3A, paragraph 29(3)) Paragraph 25.3A(a) addresses a similar requirement to the second part of this. Impairment of assets 1AD.20 Value adjustments for impairment of fixed assets (including fixed asset investments) shall be disclosed (either