that meet the definition of an entity’s own equity and the equity component of compound financial instruments issued by the reporting entity that contain both a liability and an equity component (see Section 22 Liabilities and Equity). Leases (see Section 20 Leases). However, the derecognition requirements in paragraphs 11.33 to 11.35 and impairment accounting requirements in paragraphs 11.21 to 11.26 apply to derecognition and impairment of receivables recognised by a lessor and the derecognition requirements in paragraphs 11.36 to 11.38 apply to lease liabilities. Section 12 applies to leases with characteristics specified in paragraph 12.3(f). Employers’ rights and obligations under employee benefit plans (see Section 28 Employee Benefits), although Section 2A Fair Value Measurement does apply in determining the fair value of plan assets. Financial instruments, contracts and obligations to which Section 26 Share-based Payment applies, and contracts within the scope of paragraph 12.5. Insurance contracts (including reinsurance contracts) that the entity issues and reinsurance contracts that the entity holds (see FRS 103). Financial instruments issued by an entity with a discretionary participation feature (see FRS 103). Reimbursement assets (see Section 21 Provisions and Contingencies). Financial guarantee contracts (see Section 21). Rights and obligations within the scope of Section 23 Revenue from Contracts with Customers that are financial instruments, except for receivables and those that Section 23 specifies are accounted for in accordance with this section. Basic financial instruments An entity shall account for the following financial instruments as basic financial instruments in accordance with this section: cash; a debt instrument (such as an account, note, or loan receivable or payable) that meets the conditions in paragraph 11.9 and is not a derivative financial instrument; (bA) a debt instrument that, whilst not meeting the conditions in paragraph 11.9, nevertheless is consistent with the description in paragraph 11.9A, and is not