dissimilar from the other entities, in that they do not hold financial instruments on behalf of others. Consequently, stockbrokers were removed from the list. B34D.8 Respondents also noted the difficulties in applying the previous definition to group treasury companies. Some of these issues will have been alleviated by the change in the definition, but whether or not a group treasury company is a financial institution will depend on the individual facts and circumstances. Judgement will need to be applied in determining whether a group treasury company is similar to the other entities listed in the definition of a financial institution. B34D.9 Further, bearing in mind the overall objective of entities providing information to enable users of financial statements to evaluate the significance of financial instruments held by the entity, paragraph 11.42 was amended to note that when the risks arising from financial instruments are particularly significant to the business, additional disclosure may be required. The disclosure requirements for financial institutions, set out in paragraphs 34.19 to 34.33, may be relevant in such cases. Fair value hierarchy disclosures B34D.10 In March 2016, amendments were made so that financial institutions and retirement benefit plans categorise fair value measurements into levels consistent with the fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. This followed feedback from the representative bodies of some financial institutions and retirement benefit plans suggesting that the disclosure requirements for these entities could be made more cost-effective, whilst increasing their usefulness to users of the financial statements. For those users familiar with the IFRS disclosures, the consistency of disclosure with IFRS may also reduce costs or effort of comparison and the possibility of confusion. B34D.11 It was noted that paragraphs 34.22 and 34.42 of FRS 102 required financial institutions and retirement benefit plans, respectively, to provide disclosures