is unlikely to be an issue for micro-entities. Removal of accounting requirements relating to specialised activities including extractive activities, service concessions, heritage assets and funding commitments because micro-entities will not typically enter into these transactions. Retained the operating lease and finance lease models for accounting for leases, based on FRS 102 prior to the Amendments to FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and other FRSs – Periodic Review 2024 becoming effective, which was itself a simplified version of IAS 17 Leases (see paragraph 55). Simplified requirements for recognising revenue from contracts with customers. Deferred tax Some respondents highlighted that the recognition of deferred tax should be permitted or required in FRS 105. However, it was concluded that without additional disclosure the benefits of requiring micro-entities to account for deferred tax do not exceed the costs. Government grants Respondents’ views on whether FRS 105 should require the performance or accrual model in relation to grant accounting were divided. The evidence provided by respondents suggested that the accrual model may, in practice, be easier to apply than the performance model and therefore FRS 105 mandates the use of the accrual model. Determining accounting policies when FRS 105 does not contain requirements A micro-entity that enters into a transaction that is not specifically covered in FRS 105 is required to refer to the concepts and pervasive principles set out in Section 2 Concepts and Pervasive Principles in determining its accounting policies. It was noted that micro-entities are not required to refer to other accounting standards or authoritative guidance because these requirements may be inconsistent with the legal requirements of the micro-entities regime. Transitional arrangements – Fair value / revaluation as deemed cost The micro-entities regime requires micro-entities to apply the historical cost accounting rules, which 
