provide disclosures for assets and liabilities held at fair value that are not financial instruments whereas other entities would be exempt. Therefore a qualifying entity that is a financial institution is restricted from taking advantage of the disclosure exemptions from IFRS 13 only to the extent that they apply to financial instruments. Financial institutions are not permitted to take advantage of the exemption from applying the capital disclosure requirements in IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements as these disclosures provide information relevant to financial institutions. Amendments to the definition of a financial institution (December 2017) In December 2017, as part of the Triennial review 2017 amendments the definition of a financial institution was amended, following stakeholder feedback about how the definition was being applied in practice. After considering a number of options, the principle included in the financial institution definition was amended to remove references to ‘generate wealth’ and ‘manage risk’. This change should help to reduce the interpretational difficulties and should reduce the number of entities meeting the definition of a financial institution. Respondents noted that judgement will still need to be applied in determining whether an entity meets the definition of a financial institution, and that the inclusion of stockbrokers on the list will give rise to particular difficulties as they are generally dissimilar from the other entities, in that they do not hold financial instruments on behalf of others. Consequently, stockbrokers have been removed from the list. Respondents also noted the difficulties in applying the previous definition to group treasury companies. Some of these issues will have been alleviated by the change in the definition, but whether or not a group treasury company is a financial institution will depend on the individual facts and circumstances. Judgement will need to be applied in determining whether a group treasury 
