was developed. Various options were considered including the following: Using part of the definition of ‘public accountability’ from the IFRS for SMEs Accounting Standard. Using the definition in section 467(1) of the Act. Listing the types of entity that are financial institutions. In this regard consideration was given to FRS 13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which applied a differential disclosure regime depending on the category of entity. B34D.3 Prior to the Triennial review 2017 amendments, FRS 102 defined a financial institution by reference to a list of types of entities supported by a principle, intended to capture other similar entities. B34D.4 The implementation of FRS 102 resulted in a number of queries about how the definition of a financial institution was applied in practice. Some stakeholders requested the removal of certain entities from the definition, whilst others requested amendments to the principle included in the definition to remove some uncertainties. Additionally, some perceived anomalies were highlighted during outreach. B34D.5 After considering a number of options, the principle included in the financial institution definition was amended to remove references to ‘generate wealth’ and ‘manage risk’. This change should help to reduce the interpretational difficulties in relation to implementing these concepts, and should reduce the number of entities meeting the definition of a financial institution. B34D.6 In addition, retirement benefit plans were also removed from the definition, as they are not similar to the other entities specifically included in the list and FRS 102 already includes separate disclosure requirements for retirement benefit plans in Section 34 Specialised Activities. B34D.7 Respondents noted that judgement will still need to be applied in determining whether an entity meets the definition of a financial institution, and that the inclusion of stockbrokers on the list will give rise to particular difficulties as they are generally 
