be recognised individually but measured as part of a portfolio of contracts. For presentation and disclosure, assets, liabilities, income and expenses may need to be aggregated or separated into components. Income and expenses Users of financial statements need information about both an entity’s financial position and its financial performance. Hence, although income (which includes both revenue and gains) and expenses are defined in terms of changes in assets and liabilities, information about income and expenses is just as important as information about assets and liabilities. An entity shall prepare its financial statements, except for cash flow information, using the accrual basis of accounting. On the accrual basis, items are recognised as assets, liabilities, equity, income or expenses when they satisfy the definitions and recognition criteria for those items. Recognition and derecognition The recognition process Recognition links the elements of financial statements, the statement of financial position, and the statement(s) of financial performance as follows: in the statement of financial position at the beginning and end of the reporting period, total assets minus total liabilities equal total equity; and recognised changes in equity during the reporting period comprise: income minus expenses recognised in the statement(s) of financial performance; plus contributions from equity holders, minus distributions to equity holders. Recognition criteria Only items that meet the definition of an asset, a liability or equity are recognised in the statement of financial position. Similarly, only items that meet the definition of income or expenses are recognised in the statement(s) of financial performance. However, not all items that meet the definition of one of those elements are recognised, for example if doing so would not provide relevant information, or if the costs of doing so outweigh the benefits. The recognition criteria for an item that meets the definition of one of the elements of