of Ireland and other FRSs – Periodic Review 2024, for interim periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026. Early application is permitted, provided that all the amendments are applied at the same time. If an entity applies these amendments before 1 January 2026 it shall disclose that fact. Consequential amendments to FRS 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements The consequential amendments made to FRS 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements have been reflected in the September 2015, and subsequent, editions of FRS 100. Consequential amendments to FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland The consequential amendments made to FRS 102 have been reflected in the September 2015, and subsequent, editions of FRS 102. Appendix I Glossary This appendix is an integral part of this FRS. accounting estimates|Monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to measurement uncertainty.| accounting policies|The specific principles, bases, conventions, rules and practices applied by an entity in preparing and presenting financial statements.| adopted IFRS|IFRS Accounting Standards that have been adopted in the relevant jurisdiction. In the UK, this refers to UK-adopted international accounting standards. In the Republic of Ireland, this refers to EU-adopted IFRS.| asset|A present economic resource controlled by the entity as a result of past events.| associate|An entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, over which the investor has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.| business|An integrated set of activities and assets conducted and managed for the purpose of providing: a return to investors; or lower costs or other economic benefits directly and proportionately to policyholders or participants. A business generally consists of inputs, processes applied to those inputs, and resulting outputs that are, or will be, used to generate revenues. If goodwill is present 
