to concessionary loans both made and received. Initial measurement PBE34.90 A public benefit entity or an entity within a public benefit entity group making or receiving concessionary loans shall initially measure these arrangements at the amount received or paid and recognise them in the statement of financial position. Subsequent measurement PBE34.91 In subsequent years, the carrying amount of concessionary loans in the financial statements shall be adjusted to reflect any accrued interest payable or receivable. PBE34.92 To the extent that a loan that has been made is irrecoverable, an impairment loss shall be recognised in income and expenditure. Presentation and disclosure PBE34.93 The entity shall present concessionary loans made and concessionary loans received either as a separate line items on the face of the statement of financial position or in the notes to the financial statements. PBE34.94 Concessionary loans shall be presented separately between amounts repayable or receivable within one year and amounts repayable or receivable after more than one year. PBE34.95 The entity shall disclose in its significant accounting policies the measurement basis used for concessionary loans and any other accounting policies which are relevant to the understanding of these transactions within the financial statements. PBE34.96 The entity shall disclose the following: the terms and conditions of concessionary loan arrangements, for example the interest rate, any security provided and the terms of the repayment; and the value of concessionary loans which have been committed but not taken up at the reporting date. PBE34.97 Concessionary loans made or received shall be disclosed separately. However multiple loans made or received may be disclosed in aggregate, providing that such aggregation does not obscure significant information. Appendix A to Section 34 Guidance on funding commitments (paragraphs 34.57 to 34.63) This appendix is an integral part of Section 34. 34A.1 Entities often make commitments 
