may discontinue hedge accounting voluntarily. This is a departure from IFRS 9. The FRC considered the restrictions in IFRS 9 on discontinuation unnecessarily onerous, and instead retained the existing option of voluntary discontinuation. An entity must document the election to discontinue hedge accounting, which is consistent with the requirement for documentation at the start of hedge accounting. Disclosure B11.62 The amendments retained substantially the original disclosure requirements of FRS 102. The disclosure requirements in IFRS focus on risks and risk mitigation through hedging. The FRC noted that risk disclosures are not generally required in FRS 102, except for financial institutions. Transitional arrangements for hedge accounting for first-time adopters of FRS 102 B11.63 The FRC’s aim was to develop transitional arrangements that are consistent with the permissive hedge accounting regime of FRS 102 and give entities a choice over whether to commence, continue or end hedge accounting on transition to FRS 102. Some respondents were concerned that this flexibility may be abused, as it allows entities to apply a degree of hindsight. The FRC was mindful of this possible exploitation of the transitional arrangements, nevertheless, on balance it believed that in the interests of the majority of entities, especially entities that have not applied hedge accounting before, flexibility should take precedence over restrictions aimed at preventing abuse. B11.64 The FRC was conscious that entities may have applied diverse hedge accounting practices before the adoption of FRS 102. Entities may have applied the hedge accounting requirements of FRS 26 (IAS 39) Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or may have applied synthetic accounting practices permitted under SSAP 20 Foreign currency translation. Accommodating these different accounting practices introduced complexity that the transitional arrangements needed to address. Under the transitional arrangements, regardless of which accounting practices were applied previously, entities have the choice to apply