entity’s financial statements, particularly as no consolidated financial statements would be prepared in respect of the exempt subsidiaries. Further, the qualifying entity would also be a financial institution and these disclosures relate to its financial instruments. Therefore no exemption was introduced for these new disclosure requirements. One respondent questioned whether paragraphs 24 to 31 of IFRS 12 had been considered in relation to unconsolidated structured entities as paragraph 6(b) of IFRS 12 states that ‘this IFRS does not apply to ... an entity’s separate financial statements to which IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements applies. However, if an entity has interests in unconsolidated structured entities and prepares separate financial statements as its only financial statements, it shall apply the requirements in paragraphs 24–31 when preparing those financial statements.’ On further consideration, the disclosures required by that paragraph provide relevant information and no exemption was introduced. For the avoidance of doubt, the other requirements of IFRS 12 do not apply to the preparation of individual financial statements and therefore are not relevant to financial statements prepared by qualifying entities applying FRS 101. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers superseding IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. The disclosure requirements of IFRS 15 are significantly more detailed than those required by the previous standards, with the majority of the additional requirements being qualitative in nature around judgements exercised in the recognition and measurement of revenue. Paragraph 111 of IFRS 15 calls for entities to consider the level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure objective to provide sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers, and how much emphasis to 
