obligation and the fair value of plan assets. Therefore paragraph 28.38 requires the recognition of the relevant net defined benefit liability in the individual financial statements of any group entities recognising a net defined benefit cost, and it was updated to clarify this as part of the Triennial review 2017 amendments. Multi-employer defined benefit plans Multi-employer defined benefit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans B28.4 In October 2012 the FRC issued an exposure draft of additional proposals, including amendments to Section 28 Employee Benefits. These amendments related to multi-employer defined benefit plans that are accounted for as defined contribution plans. Differences in accounting practice had arisen in relation to whether entities that participate in a defined benefit multi-employer plan, account for that plan as a defined contribution plan and have entered into a funding agreement for future payments relating to past service liabilities, recognise a liability in relation to the deficit in the plan in their financial statements. B28.5 The relevant requirement from IAS 19 was incorporated into FRS 102. The IASB’s Basis for Conclusions states that ‘In relation to the funding of a deficit, [...] this principle [is] consistent with the recognition of a provision in accordance with IAS 37’. B28.6 The measurement requirements for such a liability were also clarified. In the circumstances that the entity has entered into a funding agreement for future payments relating to past service it shall recognise those future payments as a liability, discounted using the methodology for selecting a discount rate for post-employment benefit liabilities. B28.7 Some respondents disagreed with the proposed amendment or requested a delay in implementation; however, a liability exists and its recognition provides useful information to users and therefore these requirements were mandatory from the effective date of FRS 102. B28.8 Some respondents suggested that FRS 102