unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the reporting period. The micro-entity shall present this amount as falling due within one year at the reporting date. A micro-entity shall recognise the cost of other (non-accumulating) compensated absences when the absences occur. The micro-entity shall measure the cost of non-accumulating compensated absences at the undiscounted amount of salaries and wages paid or payable for the period of absence. Recognition: Profit-sharing and bonus plans A micro-entity shall recognise the expected cost of profit-sharing and bonus payments only when: the micro-entity has a present legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past events (this means that the micro-entity has no realistic alternative but to make the payments); and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made. Post-employment benefits: Distinction between defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans Post-employment benefits include, for example: retirement benefits, such as pensions; and other post-employment benefits, such as post-employment life insurance and post-employment medical care. Arrangements whereby a micro-entity provides post-employment benefits are post-employment benefit plans. A micro-entity shall apply this section to all such arrangements whether or not they involve the establishment of a separate entity to receive contributions and to pay benefits. In some cases, these arrangements are imposed by law rather than by action of the micro-entity. In some cases, these arrangements arise from actions of the micro-entity even in the absence of a formal, documented plan. Post-employment benefit plans are classified as either defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, depending on their principal terms and conditions: Defined contribution plans are post-employment benefit plans under which a micro-entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity (a fund) and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions or to make direct benefit payments to employees