review of its financial statements, that another presentation or classification would be more appropriate having regard to the criteria for the selection and application of accounting policies in Section 10 Accounting Policies, Estimates and Errors; or this FRS, or another applicable FRS, requires a change in presentation. 3.12 When the presentation or classification of items in the financial statements is changed, an entity shall reclassify comparative amounts unless the reclassification is impracticable. When comparative amounts are reclassified, an entity shall disclose the following: the nature of the reclassification; the amount of each item or class of items that is reclassified; and the reason for the reclassification. 3.13 If it is impracticable to reclassify comparative amounts, an entity shall disclose the reason why. Comparative information 3.14 Except when this FRS permits or requires otherwise, an entity shall present comparative information in respect of the preceding period for all amounts presented in the current period’s financial statements. An entity shall include comparative information for narrative and descriptive information when it is relevant to an understanding of the current period’s financial statements. A An entity providing reconciliations of items of fixed assets, in accordance with paragraph 51 of Schedule 1 to the Regulations, need not present these reconciliations for prior periods. Materiality and aggregation An entity shall present separately each material class of similar items. An entity shall present separately items of a dissimilar nature or function unless they are immaterial. Financial statements result from processing large numbers of transactions or other events that are aggregated into classes according to their nature or function. The final stage in the process of aggregation and classification is the presentation of condensed and classified data, which form line items in the financial statements. If a line item is not individually material, it is aggregated with other