corresponding disclosures. Public Benefit Entity Concessionary Loans B34K.1 The two accounting treatments to consider when determining the basis for the measurement of concessionary loans are the amount paid or received, and the accounting policy choice made for financial instruments under paragraphs 11.2 and 12.2. B34K.2 Accounting for concessionary loans at the amount paid or received may not be consistent with the accounting requirements set out in Section 11 Basic Financial Instruments, adopted IFRS or IPSAS 41 Financial Instruments, for example if measurement under those other requirements would be at fair value. B34K.3 Nevertheless, due to the difficulties that smaller PBEs may face with measuring such transactions, PBEs that make or receive concessionary loans have the option of measuring such loans at the amount paid or received. PBEs that make and receive concessionary loans must apply the same measurement method to both. Further, the same accounting may be applied by other wholly-owned entities in a public benefit entity group, to eliminate the need to restate concessionary loans made or received for the purposes of furthering the PBEs objectives on consolidation. B34K.4 The disclosure requirements in FRS 102 provide sufficient information to understand and interpret the impact of these types of transaction on the financial statements. B35 Section 35 Transition to this FRS Goodwill on transition B35.1 FRS 102 does not permit goodwill to have an indefinite useful life, unlike previous accounting standards. On transition to FRS 102 entities that previously determined that goodwill had an indefinite useful life would need to reassess goodwill to determine its remaining useful life, and subsequently amortise the goodwill over that period. Periodic Review 2024 B35.2 As part of the Periodic Review 2024 amendments, a number of transitional provisions relating to transitions from superseded accounting frameworks were deleted. A number of new transitional provisions were added, 
