is, the key audit partner must be an RI. 3 ISQM (UK) 1, paragraph 34-1(c)(iv). 4 Section 1212 of the Companies Act 2006. 5 The FRC has issued Eligibility Criteria here: https://www.frc.org.uk/getattachment/63a7c9d3-1ed7-4bbb-885c-c466d3d65773/FRC-Eligibility-Criteria-updated-effective-5- December-2022.pdf. 6 ISQM (UK) 1, paragraph 32(d). 4 The key audit partner designated at the level of each material subsidiary must be an individual who is eligible to conduct the audit of the accounts of that material subsidiary and who is designated as being primarily responsible for that audit. For any audits of UK subsidiary undertakings, the designated key audit partner must be an RI. For any audits of overseas subsidiary undertakings, the group auditor will need to consider, in determining the key audit partner at that component, what "eligible to conduct the audit" means in the context of that group engagement. Such considerations should take into account factors such as: The requirement to apply as its main criteria the need to secure the quality of the audit and the firm's independence and competence in carrying out the audit and that the key audit partner is actively involved in carrying out the audit. 7 Whether the component auditor operates in a regulatory environment that actively oversees auditors. Whether the firm and the group auditor consider the eligibility criteria in the jurisdiction of the material subsidiary to be equivalent to that in the UK. Public Interest Entities For an audit of the financial statements of a public interest entity (PIE), the key audit partner must also meet and comply with the requirements of the FRC’s Public Interest Entity (PIE) Auditor Registration Regulations.8 This includes, inter alia, being fit and proper9 and having sufficient experience and competence10 to undertake audits of financial statements of PIEs. 7 ISQM (UK) 1, paragraph 34-1(j)(ii) and (iii). 8 See: https://www.frc.org.uk/auditors/audit-firm-supervision/public-interest-entity-auditor-registration. 9 Registration requirement 5.1(d) 
