Welcome to the April 2025 edition of the HMRC Trusts and Estates Newsletter. We do not have a mailing list for the newsletter. Changes to the main rates of Capital Gains Tax announced at Autumn Budget 2024 Ñ Self Assessment returns for tax year 2024 to 2025 For the tax year 2024 to 2025, individuals, trustees and personal representatives will need to take additional steps to calculate their Capital Gains Tax if they made disposals on or after 30 October 2024. This is because the Self Assessment tax return will not automatically calculate at the new rates. This excludes: residential property Business Asset Disposal Relief InvestorsÕ Relief carried interest An adjustment tool is available to support individuals, trustees, and personal representatives when calculating the correct adjustment Þgure. Adjustment boxes on the following forms should be used to account for any in-year di ! erence in tax to make sure the tax due is correct: SA108 Ñ individuals capital gains summary page SA905 Ñ Trusts and Estates capital gains SA970 Ñ Tax Return for Trustees of Registered Pension Schemes Read about changes to the main rates of Capital Gains Tax . Changing a trust from a taxable to a non- taxable trust on the Trust Registration Service Trusts registered on the Trust Registration Service ( TRS ) as ÔtaxableÕ, need to be closed when they no longer incur any UK tax liabilities. A trust registered on the TRS has ceased to be taxable when it is no longer liable to pay any of the following relevant UK taxes: Income Tax Capital Gains Tax Inheritance Tax Stamp Duty Land Tax Land and Buildings Transaction Tax (in Scotland) Land Transaction Tax (in Wales) Stamp Duty Reserve Tax If you believe your trust will never, or is unlikely to ever be liable to pay these taxes again, youÕll need to: close your taxable trust re-register the trust on the TRS as a non-taxable trust If you believe your trust will be liable to pay any of these taxes again: your trust should remain as a taxable trust on the TRS you should update the register with any changes within 90 days Technical consultation Ñ reforms to inheritance tax agricultural property relief and business property relief Ñ application in relation to trusts At Autumn Budget 2024, the government announced several reforms to agricultural property relief and business property relief from inheritance tax ( IHT ). A summary of the reforms was published setting out the key changes. Read about agricultural property relief and business property relief reforms for more information. On 27 February, a technical consultation was launched regarding the application of these reforms to IHT charges on trust property. Read about reforms to inheritance tax reliefs Ñ consultation on property settled into trust . We welcome views from individual settlors, trustees and other trust professionals, as well as tax and legal practitioners. The consultation will close on 23 April 2025. Reforms to the remittance basis, the introduction of a 4-year foreign income and gains regime and the temporary repatriation facility From 6 April 2025, the old rules for the taxation of non-UK domiciled individuals ended. The concept of domicile as a relevant connecting factor in the UK tax system has been replaced by a system based on tax residence. The preferential tax treatment based on domicile status has been removed for all new foreign income and gains ( FIG ) that arises from 6 April 2025. It has been replaced by an internationally competitive residence-based regime, providing 100% relief on eligible FIG for new arrivals to the UK in their Þrst four years of