resident) will be subject to IHT . There is an additional test for qualifying interest in possession ( QIIP ) settlements so that the property comprised in the settlement is only excluded property if both the settlor and the beneÞciary with the QIIP are not long-term UK resident. How this may impact you Individuals may continue to be a long-term UK resident for a period of 3-10 years after leaving the UK. Trustees, including those outside the UK, will need to review the long-term residence status of the settlor. Non-UK trust property will become excluded property (and outside the scope of IHT ) when the settlor loses long-term UK resident status. An exit charge will arise on this. For a small number of trusts, this exit could occur on 6 April 2025. The UKÕs Double Taxation Conventions for IHT continue to operate. Where a Double Taxation Convention operates by reference to deemed domicile, that will now mean an individualÕs long-term UK residence. Completing Inheritance Tax forms WeÕve updated the IHT400 form and IHT100 form . Existing schedules IHT401 and D31 remain in use for older events. New schedules IHT401a, D31a and D31b cover events where the deceased, transferor or settlor is not a long-term UK resident and transitional provisions. More Information A new chapter of the Inheritance Tax Manual (Chapter 47 Long term UK residence) has been published on gov.uk. This contains full guidance, including both: transitional arrangements for individuals who are non-resident in 2025-26 carve-outs for existing excluded property trusts from 40% charges on death Direct Payment Scheme On 1 October 2024, HMRC extended the Direct Payment Scheme so that personal representatives can ask brokers and investment management Þrms to sell assets and release funds from the deceasedÕs investment accounts directly to them. In response to feedback, we have removed the references to pension and insurance providers from the Direct Payment Scheme form and guidance. The scheme remains fully open to investment providers as originally intended. Read the updated guidance about Direct Payment Schemes for Inheritance Tax (IHT423) . Errors relating to trusts, rectiÞcation, mistakes, and Hastings-Bass The following guidance provides information on how to contact HMRC where a taxpayer is considering seeking a trust law remedy in the High Court of England and Wales or a court of another jurisdiction, and wishes to contact HMRC before issuing court proceedings. Where the application to the court is being made for tax reasons, the taxpayer seeking the trust law remedy may ask whether HMRC wants to be joined as a party to the court proceedings. If a taxpayer is considering applying to the High Court or a court of another jurisdiction and the tax position of the taxpayer may change as a result of the application to the court, HMRC should be given the opportunity to decide whether to be joined in the court proceedings. We request that the taxpayer write to us well ahead of time to: ask whether HMRC wish to be joined in the proceedings notify us of the date of any hearing provide us with a copy of the claim and any witness statements The heading of the letter should specify whether the claim falls under ÔrectiÞcationÕ, ÔmistakeÕ or ÔHastings-BassÕ. Write to us at the following address: HMRC 1 Unity Square (S1753) Inheritance Tax Technical (B6-14) Central Mail Unit Newcastle NE98 1ZZ United Kingdom This contact address is not to be used to serve new legal proceedings on HMRC. If you wish to serve new legal proceedings on HMRC, please refer to the following guidance. HMRC accepts service of legal proceedings by email . Further information 
