regime and the temporary repatriation facility From 6 April 2025, the old rules for the taxation of non-UK domiciled individuals ended. The concept of domicile as a relevant connecting factor in the UK tax system has been replaced by a system based on tax residence. The preferential tax treatment based on domicile status has been removed for all new foreign income and gains ( FIG ) that arises from 6 April 2025. It has been replaced by an internationally competitive residence-based regime, providing 100% relief on eligible FIG for new arrivals to the UK in their Þrst four years of tax residence. This is provided they have not been UK tax resident in the 10 tax years immediately prior to their arrival (4-year FIG regime). A new temporary repatriation facility ( TRF ) is now available for individuals who have been taxed on the remittance basis. Individuals who have previously claimed the remittance basis and have unremitted FIG at 5 April 2025 will be able to make an election to designate amounts of unremitted FIG , or amounts that derived from unremitted FIG that arose prior to 6 April 2025 for a period of 3 tax years, from 6 April 2025. Designated amounts will be charged to tax at a rate of 12% in tax years 2025 to 2026 and 2026 to 2027. The rate will rise to 15% in tax year 2027 to 2028. Any Ôdesignated amountsÕ remitted on or after 6 April 2025 are exempt from any Income Tax charges or Capital Gains Tax charges. Detailed guidance for former remittance basis users and those who may need to use the new: 4-year FIG regime can be found in the FIG regime internal manual (RFIG41000) TRF can be found in the Remittance Basis and Domicile Manual (RDRM70000) More detailed guidance on both of these subjects has recently been added to the Residence and FIG Regime Manual (RFIG44000) . Reforms to inheritance tax from domicile basis to long-term UK residence From 6 April 2025 the domicile-based system for IHT was replaced with a residence- based system. This a ! ects the scope of property brought into UK IHT for individuals and settlements. The test for whether non-UK assets are in scope for IHT is whether an individual has been resident in the UK for at least 10 out of the last 20 tax years immediately preceding the tax year in which the chargeable event (including death) arises. The time the individual remains in scope after leaving the UK is shortened where they have only been resident in the UK for between 10 and 19 years. Subject to transitional points, the excluded property status of non-UK settled assets is not Þxed at the time the assets are added to a settlement. Instead, they are only excluded property (and so not subject to IHT charges) at times when the settlor is not long-term UK resident. When a settlor is long-term UK resident, any assets they have settled (even when not long-term UK resident) will be subject to IHT . There is an additional test for qualifying interest in possession ( QIIP ) settlements so that the property comprised in the settlement is only excluded property if both the settlor and the beneÞciary with the QIIP are not long-term UK resident. How this may impact you Individuals may continue to be a long-term UK resident for a period of 3-10 years after leaving the UK. Trustees, including those outside the UK, will need to review the long-term residence status of the settlor. Non-UK trust property will become excluded property (and outside the scope