Guidance LETacCIS Programme The Land Environment Tactical Communications and Information Systems (LETacCIS) Programme aims to deliver tactical military communications. From: Ministry of Defence (/government/organisations/ministry-of-defence) Published 1 October 2020 Last updated 2 November 2023 — LETacCIS vision We are committed to delivering and sustaining world-class tactical command, control, communications, and computers and intelligence (C4I) capabilities, enabling the war-fighter to win. LETacCIS overview The LETacCIS programme consists of multiple projects with the aim of delivering the next generation of tactical military communications in the land environment, and providing the means to make informed and timely decisions, enabled by agile Communication Information Systems (CIS). The programme also includes projects that have already delivered equipment into service. The LETacCIS programme is delivered by a partnership of Army Headquarters and Defence Digital’s Tactical Systems (TacSys) Service Executive, working as one team in collaboration with key industry partners. LETacCIS is a collaborative, multi-vendor programme working towards a shared objective, by actively sharing information across organisations and using efficient and coherent information management. Projects within the Programme [* denotes In Service] Dismounted Situational Awareness (DSA) DSA will provide Dismounted Close Combat (DCC) users with significantly enhanced voice and data services that will enable more effective situational awareness at the lower tactical levels. MORPHEUS MORPHEUS will evolve the current Bowman system into the next generation of tactical communications, and provide a modern tactical CIS system used in forward headquarters, vehicles and on the soldier. TRINITY TRINITY will provide a Wide Area Network (WAN) with significantly increased bandwidth and information mobility compared to current systems. It will be Defence as a Platform compliant, assuring the integrity and availability of the data, and will form part of the Protected Core Network. Bowman ComBAT Infrastructure and Platform 5.6 (BCIP 5.6)* BCIP 5.6 represents the capability upgrade of the Bowman system, and 
