In March 2024 the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) launched its market study into the market for the assurance of sustainability reporting (sustainability assurance). The study will focus on how well the UK sustainability assurance market is functioning, whether this market is delivering desirable outcomes including high quality assurance with minimal burdens and costs on business, and how the market may develop in the future. This market study will centre on the impact of sustainability assurance across UK companies, considering how sustainability assurance impacts companies, investors and the wider assurance market. Background 84% of the FTSE 100 obtained some form of sustainability assurance in 2022.1 The sustainability assurance market represents a fast-growing market that is serviced by a wide range of providers, including audit firms, sustainability consultancies and engineering firms. In the UK some companies are required to provide climate-related financial disclosures alongside other sustainability related disclosures but there are no requirements for companies to obtain assurance over that information. There are however developments in regulation internationally which require companies to obtain assurance over specific categories of information. These requirements could impact on UK companies. The FRC wants to ensure the UK’s market for sustainability assurance is working effectively, producing high quality assurance to support the production of useful, reliable reporting for investors, without creating undue burdens and costs on business. We want to understand if, and how, any developments in this market could affect the UK’s statutory audit market. We want to ensure there is effective competition to help drive economic growth. The findings from the study will also inform the FRC’s wider policy and work related to sustainability assurance and may inform any future Government policy relating to sustainability assurance. Our approach Our approach to this will be based around three themes: 1 Source: IFAC, State of Play in 
