will not send you any returns for that period. You must file a return (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis-contractor/file-your-monthly-returns) when you start paying subcontractors again. Pay deductions to HMRC You must pay HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) any deductions you’ve made. HMRC will set up a Construction Industry Scheme (CIS) payment scheme for you when you register as a contractor (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis-contractor/how-to- register). If you already have employees, HMRC will change your existing PAYE Scheme to a PAYE/CIS scheme. You should make one payment each month or quarter to cover your PAYE tax, National Insurance and CIS deductions. When and how to pay Pay HMRC every month by the 22nd (or the 19th if you’re paying by post). You may be charged interest and penalties (/running-payroll/paying-hmrc) if you pay late. Pay CIS deductions to HMRC in the same way as PAYE and National Insurance payments (/pay-paye-tax). File your monthly returns You must tell HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) each month about payments you’ve made to subcontractors through your monthly return. You can file returns by using: the HMRC CIS online (/use-construction-industry-scheme-online) service some commercial CIS software (/government/publications/construction-industry- scheme-cis-commercial-software-suppliers) On your return, you must declare that the subcontractors listed are not employees (/employment-status/employee). You could get a penalty of up to £3,000 if you give the wrong employment status for a subcontractor on your monthly return. If you made no payments You do not have to file a return for the months when you made no payments to subcontractors, but you must tell HMRC: that no return is due for these months if you start using subcontractors again after you’ve temporarily stopped using them if you want to make an inactivity request because you’ve temporarily stopped using subcontractors - this lasts for 6 months You can use the CIS online (/use-construction-industry-scheme-online) service to tell HMRC. If