anyone who helps you to make a false registration. Register online The quickest way to register is online. This will register you for ‘net payment status’ (also known as ‘payment under deduction’). To use the online service, you need a: UTR Government Gateway user ID and password If you do not have a UTR, register as a new business for Self Assessment (/register-for-self-assessment) and choose ‘working as a subcontractor’ when prompted. You’ll be registered for Self Assessment and CIS at the same time. If you do not have a Government Gateway user ID, you can create one when you use the service. If you’re an agent, use the Government Gateway user ID you use to sign in to your agent services account. If you’ve registered as a new business for Self Assessment, you can check when to expect a reply from HMRC (/guidance/check-when-you-can-expect-a- reply-from-hmrc). Register by post If you cannot register online, you can send a postal form. Fill in the form below that applies to you: register if you’re a sole trader (/guidance/register-as-a-sole-trader-subcontractor- with-payment-under-deduction-by-post) register if you’re in a partnership (/guidance/register-a-partnership-as-a- subcontractor-with-payment-under-deduction-by-post) register if you’re a limited company (/guidance/register-a-limited-company-as-a- subcontractor-with-payment-under-deduction-by-post) If you’re based abroad You should still register for CIS if you are a subcontractor based abroad (/guidance/construction-industry-scheme-businesses-based-outside-uk) but do construction work in the UK. Sign up for webinars and emails You can sign up for webinars and emails about CIS (/government/news/webinars- emails-and-videos-on-the-construction-industry-scheme-cis). Get paid To be paid correctly by a contractor, make sure you give them the exact same legal business name or trading name you gave when you registered for the Construction Industry Scheme (CIS). You should also give them your Unique Taxpayer Reference (/find-lost-utr-number) (UTR) so they can verify you. If you do not, this could affect how much you get paid. Deduction rates When a 
