contractor pays you under CIS, they’ll normally make deductions at the standard rate of 20%. Contractors will make deductions at a higher rate of 30% if: you are not registered for CIS (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis-subcontractor/how-to- register) they cannot verify you (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis-contractor/verify-subcontractors) you give the wrong name for your business Your contractor should give you monthly statements of payments and deductions. Use them to calculate whether you still owe tax and National Insurance (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis-subcontractor/pay-tax-and-claim-back- deductions) to HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) or are due a refund. Gross payment status You can apply for g ross payment status (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis- subcontractor/gross-payment-status) when you register for CIS (/what-you-must-do-as- a-cis-subcontractor/how-to-register). This means the contractor will not make deductions from your payments and you’ll pay all your tax and National Insurance at the end of the tax year. What does not count as your pay Contractors will not make a CIS deduction from amounts you charge on your invoice for: VAT equipment which is now unusable (‘consumable stores’) plant hired for the job manufacturing or prefabricating materials materials that you have paid for directly Your contractor may ask you for evidence (for example, receipts) that you directly paid for materials. If you do not have any evidence, the contractor will estimate the cost of the materials. Pay tax and claim back deductions When you’re registered with the Construction Industry Scheme (CIS), you’re still responsible for paying the correct tax and National Insurance for your business, even if deductions have been made by contractors throughout the year. Contractors will give you a monthly statement of what they’ve paid you and deductions they’ve made to help with your accounting. Sole traders and partners At the end of the tax year, send in your Self Assessment tax return (/self- assessment-tax-returns/overview) as usual. You should record: the full amounts on your invoices 
