What you must do as a Construction Industry Scheme (CIS) contractor Overview You must register as a contractor (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis-contractor/how-to- register) with the Construction Industry Scheme (CIS) if: you pay subcontractors to do construction work your business does not do construction work but you have spent more than £3 million on construction in the 12 months since you made your first payment You may be a sole trader, in a partnership or own a limited company. If you’re not sure if you need to register, check who is covered by CIS (/what-you- must-do-as-a-cis-contractor/who-is-covered-by-cis). Rules you must follow You must register for CIS before you take on your first subcontractor. You must check if you should employ the person (/employment- status/employee) instead of subcontracting the work (/employment- status/selfemployed-contractor). You may get a penalty if they should be an employee instead. Check with HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) that your subcontractors are registered with CIS (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis-contractor/verify- subcontractors). When you pay subcontractors, you’ll usually need to make deductions (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis-contractor/make-deductions-and-pay-subcontractors) from their payments and pay the money (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis- contractor/pay-deductions-to-hmrc) to HMRC. Deductions count as advance payments towards the subcontractor’s tax and National Insurance bill. You’ll need to file monthly returns (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis-contractor/file- your-monthly-returns) and keep full CIS records (/what-you-must-do-as-a-cis- contractor/record-keeping) - you may get a penalty if you do not. You must let HMRC know about any changes to your business (/what-you- must-do-as-a-cis-contractor/tell-hmrc-about-changes). Who is covered by CIS The Construction Industry Scheme (CIS) covers most construction work to buildings, including site preparation, decorating and refurbishment. Mainstream contractors If your business is construction and you pay subcontractors for construction work, you’re a ‘mainstream’ contractor. This applies if you’re a: builder labour agency gangmaster (or gang leader) property developer Deemed contractors You count as a ‘deemed’ contractor if your business does not do construction work but you have 
