seat paying extra for beneÞts such as: pre-booking reduced check in times fast track through security priority boarding access to VIP lounges transport to or from the airport better baggage allowances Upgrades If a passenger pays to upgrade at any stage in the journey, then theyÕre travelling in the higher class. The same applies to free upgrades if thereÕs an element of entitlement or priority not enjoyed by other standard class passengers. For example ÔperksÕ enjoyed by airline employees. A passenger remains in standard class if they get a free upgrade but has no expectation of, or entitlement to one. Calculate what you owe To calculate the duty you owe: work out the number of passengers in each band (Domestic, A, B or C), less any exempt passengers ( https://www.gov.uk/guidance/exemptions-from-air-passenger-duty ) identify the class of travel for each and whether theyÕre carried in a plane that attracts the higher rate apply the relevant rate to this number to get the amount of duty you owe For business jets, calculate seat pitches: for facing seats, the distance between the back support cushion of a seat in its upright position to the back support cushion of the opposing seat in its upright position, and divide this by 2 for bench or side facing seats that face onto an aisle, the distance from the back support cushion to where aisle space reasonably begins For private jets, if the seats on your aircraft have seat pitches both above and below 40 inches, you may need to apply both reduced and standard rates. To account for duty, you should apply the: standard rate to all passengers if the number of passengers is less than, or equal to the number of seats over 40 inches standard rate to the number of passengers that equal the number of 40 inch plus seats, if the number of passengers exceeds the number of 40 inch plus seats reduced rate to the rest Rates for ßights starting in the UK Duty rates for ßights starting from UK airports, excluding Northern Ireland and the Scottish Highlands and Islands region. Find out more about Air Passenger Duty in the Scottish Highlands and Islands ( https://www.gov.uk/guidance/exemptions-from-air- passenger-duty#scottish-highlands-and-islands ) . Rates from 1 April 2026 Destination bands Reduced rate Standard rate Higher rate Domestic £8 £16 £142 Band A £15 £32 £142 Band B £102 £244 £1097 Band C £106 £253 £1141 Rates from 1 April 2025 Destination bands Reduced rate Standard rate Higher rate Domestic £7 £14 £84 Band A £13 £28 £84 Band B £90 £216 £647 Band C £94 £224 £673 Check which duty rates apply for years earlier than the current year ( https://www.gov.uk/guidance/rates-and-allowances-for-air-passenger-duty-historic-rates ) . Rates for ßights starting in Northern Ireland You do not pay duty on direct long-haul ßights departing from airports in Northern Ireland. A ßight is a Ôdirect long-haul ßightÕ when: the passengerÕs journey begins from an airport in Northern Ireland the Þrst part of the journey is to a destination not in the UK or in band A that part of the journey is direct and does not connect elsewhere beforehand You do not need to declare these ßights on your return. Instead youÕll need to give the relevant information on a quarterly basis in a separate spreadsheet to the Central Assurance Team. Contact the Central Assurance Team by email ( https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/hm-revenue-customs/contact/air-passenger- duty ) if you think this applies to you. YouÕll still need to complete returns for domestic ßights, band A ßights and indirect ßights to band B and C destinations. Rates from 1 April 2026 Destination band: Domestic Rates Direct Indirect Reduced 
