Central African Republic Kazakhstan Sint Maarten Ñ Chad Kenya Somalia Ñ China Kuwait South Korea Ñ Colombia Kyrgyzstan South Sudan Ñ Comoros Lebanon Sri Lanka Ñ Congo Liberia St Helena Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Ñ Congo (Democratic Republic) Malawi St Kitts and Nevis Ñ Costa Rica Maldives Sudan Ñ Cuba Mali Suriname Ñ Cura“ao Martinique Syria Ñ Djibouti Mauritania Ñ Ñ Dominica Mayotte Ñ Ñ Dominican Republic Mongolia Ñ Ñ Ñ Montserrat Ñ Ñ From 1 April 2023, any other destination will fall into band C. How to work out what destination band the Þnal destination is in The original place of departure and the Þnal place of destination is whatÕs shown on the ticket unless: a journey includes 2 or more ßights any of those ßights are not followed by a connected ßight A passengerÕs Þnal destination is where their journey ends. If the journey is made of one ßight the Þnal destination is where that ßight ends. If the journey includes more than one ßight, and the ßights are connected, the Þnal destination is where the last ßight ends and is not followed by a connected ßight. Find out more about connected ßights ( https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-passenger-duty- and-connected-ßights ) . Rate types There are 3 rates of duty for each destination band depending on the class of travel. Reduced rate For travel in the lowest class of travel available on the plane for seat pitches less than 1.016 metres (40 inches). Standard rate For travel in any other class of travel or where the seat pitch is more than 1.016 metres (40 inches). Higher rate For travel in planes of 20 tonnes or more equipped to carry fewer than 19 passengers. Classes of travel If the passengers have different standards of comfort, service, privacy or amenities, theyÕre in different classes of travel. Better seats at no extra cost on Þrst-come Þrst-served basis If the plane has different cabins or seating areas, passengers are not in a higher class as long as both the following apply: there is no extra cost for a better seat the better seating is available on a ÔÞrst-come Þrst-servedÕ basis, whether at the booking stage or when they get on the plane Packages and seat-only Seats bought from a tour operator as part of a package are not a different class to seats bought on a ßight-only basis. On-board purchases, seating preferences and other beneÞts The following on their own do not affect the class of travel, but may do so if they form part of a package of beneÞts: buying goods and services on board unless they add up to an upgrade paying extra to choose a seat, as long as it is not a better class of seat paying extra to sit next to an empty seat paying for an empty seat paying extra for a seat with extra legroom, as long as: the seat is not separated from the ordinary seats in any way there are no other beneÞts linked with the seat paying extra for beneÞts such as: pre-booking reduced check in times fast track through security priority boarding access to VIP lounges transport to or from the airport better baggage allowances Upgrades If a passenger pays to upgrade at any stage in the journey, then theyÕre travelling in the higher class. The same applies to free upgrades if thereÕs an element of entitlement or priority not enjoyed by other standard class passengers. For example ÔperksÕ enjoyed by airline employees. A passenger remains in standard class if they get a free upgrade but has no expectation of, or entitlement to one.