The summary of responses includes the governmentÕs intention to consider further reform of revenue correction notices, approaches to taxpayer self-correction and broader reform of enquiry and assessment powers. Reforming HMRC systems and processes to simplify individuals customer experience Income Tax Self Assessment criteria review The Income Tax Self Assessment reporting thresholds for trading, property and Ôother taxableÕ income will be aligned and changed to £3,000 (gross) each. This will remove the requirement for up to an estimated 300,000 taxpayers to submit a Self Assessment return, so that taxpayers are only required to do so where necessary. PeopleÕs tax liability will not change, but people with taxable income below these new thresholds will be able to report their income through a new digital reporting service. Taxpayers will have a choice. They can remain in Self Assessment if they wish or use the new service. The changes will take place within this Parliament, with further detail set out on publication of the transformation roadmap later this year. Voluntary National Insurance contributions Ñ enhancing check your state pension forecast service The government has announced it intends to further enhance the check your state pension forecast service, which supports people who want to make payments for voluntary National Insurance contributions to Þll gaps in their National Insurance record. Reviewing National Insurance contributions annual maximum refunds process The government will review the process for refunding National Insurance contributions under the annual maximum rules. Currently, customers who pay more than they are liable for can make a claim for a refund from HMRC at the end of the tax year. The government will review the process to make it easier and faster for customers to access the refunds they are entitled to. Simplifying HMRC Guidance and Communications Clarifying Self Assessment registration obligations The government recognises that reporting requirements for taxable income must be easy for taxpayers to understand. HMRC will work with taxpayer representative organisations and stakeholders to ensure that guidance on when individuals need to register for Self Assessment is clear. Simplifying the language used in HMRC letters The government and HMRC will work with the Administrative Burdens Advisory Board and other stakeholders to simplify the language used in HMRC letters. Ceasing Corporation Tax letters The government announced that it will stop issuing 6 types of non-essential letters connected with Corporation Tax from June 2025. This will bring down overall costs by reducing use of paper to communicate with customers. There will be no change to the overall Corporation Tax process. Making it simpler for third parties to use HMRC guidance in AI-powered products and services The government and HMRC will work with the Government Digital Service to explore how best to help businesses and other third parties leverage GOV.UK guidance in their own AI-powered products and services so taxpayers can beneÞt from the latest AI solutions to help them Þnd the information they need. Professional standards in compliance Ñ improving guidance and support for customers in compliance checks A new interactive compliance guidance tool is being developed within GOV.UK to provide a better understanding of what to expect and what needs to be done at each stage of a compliance check, making it easier for taxpayers to get things right and to understand their rights. The launch is planned for 30 April, and the tool will be continuously developed thereafter. Simplifying customs processes, reducing trader burdens, improving customer experience, and ensuring there is a targeted and appropriate level of control on goods movements Customs Digitalisation The government has announced activity it is leading with industry and trade partners to support increased trade and customs