is being developed within GOV.UK to provide a better understanding of what to expect and what needs to be done at each stage of a compliance check, making it easier for taxpayers to get things right and to understand their rights. The launch is planned for 30 April, and the tool will be continuously developed thereafter. Simplifying customs processes, reducing trader burdens, improving customer experience, and ensuring there is a targeted and appropriate level of control on goods movements Customs Digitalisation The government has announced activity it is leading with industry and trade partners to support increased trade and customs digitalisation and modernise the way customs interacts with business. This includes: running a technical pilot with United States Customs and Border Protection to test solutions to speed up processes for US and UK businesses trading goods with each other establishing a cross-government and industry forum to foster adoption of electronic trade documents, through collaboration between government and the business community operating a pilot with industry partners to understand how HMRC systems could process electronic trade documents and assess how this could improve customs administration Temporary Admission The government has published its response to the 2023 call for evidence on Temporary Admission which announces a package of targeted improvements and simpliÞcations to Temporary Admission. These changes will be legislated for and implemented in 2025. The changes include extending and simplifying time limits for some goods, removing some restrictions on who can use the procedure and what they can do with their goods, and making guidance easier to understand. Details have been published in the response to the call for evidence. Post and Parcels Exports consultation The government has published its response to the ÔCustoms treatment of post and parcel exports Ñ Export Memorandum of Understanding and Extra Territorial O " ces of ExchangeÕ consultation which was launched in 2023. This announces a new authorisation scheme for Extra-Territorial O " ce of Exchange operators and their sites. It also sets out an intention to conduct a further review of the Export and Transhipment Memoranda of Understanding facilitations to clarify the rules. Authorisation by Declaration The government will increase how often importers can use Authorisation by Declaration from 3 to 10 times in a rolling 12 month period. This will be legislated and implemented in Summer 2025. Authorisation by Declaration is a simpliÞed way to access some customs special procedures which relieve or suspend import duties, as it does not require the importer to apply to HMRC for an authorisation in advance. Transit Improvements The government will engage with stakeholders on a package of potential transit improvements to modernise the transit process. This engagement will seek to clarify: the beneÞts of introducing transit security accompanying documents to determine whether the UK should opt into o ! ering them from a future date whether proposals to streamline the existing simpliÞed process will reduce costs for businesses and encourage more transit movements to start at a business premises by : removing the Ôtime out periodÕ introducing more ßexible controls improving the authorisation process facilitating compliant simpliÞed movements departing standard export locations Further tax policy and administrative announcements Inland border facilities The government has announced amendments to existing trader provided free legislation. This will mean that all border locations will be responsible for providing and funding their own customs infrastructure, including border locations where this infrastructure is currently provided and funded by the government at inland border facilities. Restitution interest Ñ changes to Part 8C of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 The government has published a draft for technical consultation of regulations which will modify Part 
