introducing more ßexible controls improving the authorisation process facilitating compliant simpliÞed movements departing standard export locations Further tax policy and administrative announcements Inland border facilities The government has announced amendments to existing trader provided free legislation. This will mean that all border locations will be responsible for providing and funding their own customs infrastructure, including border locations where this infrastructure is currently provided and funded by the government at inland border facilities. Restitution interest Ñ changes to Part 8C of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 The government has published a draft for technical consultation of regulations which will modify Part 8C of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 to make clear that the legislation applies only to awards made at a rate of interest greater than a statutory rate under the taxes acts. The regulations will also permit a Part 8C assessment to be made within two years of the end of the accounting period when the restitution claim is Þnally determined (if the normal assessing time limit has expired). Re f o r m Single Remote Gambling Duty As announced at Autumn Budget 2024, the government has published a consultation on proposals to bring remote gambling (meaning gambling o ! ered over the internet, telephone, TV and radio) into a single tax , rather than taxing it through the current three-tax structure. Consultation on the VAT treatment of business donations of goods to charity The government has published a consultation on the VAT treatment of business donations of goods to charity . The consultation seeks views on a new VAT relief aligning the treatment of goods donated for distribution to those in need or use by the charity, with the existing relief for goods donated for onward sale. Consultation on reform of LandÞll Tax The government has published a consultation on reform of LandÞll Tax . The consultation seeks views on the governmentÕs ambition to transition to a more circular economy, simplify the tax, reduce opportunities for error and non-compliance, and crack down on waste crime. Transfer pricing Ñ scope and documentation The government has published a consultation covering two proposals concerning changes to the UKÕs transfer pricing rules . The Þrst proposal would amend the current exemption from transfer pricing for small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ), bringing medium-sized enterprises into scope of transfer pricing. This sits alongside wider reforms that will largely give an exemption from transfer pricing for transactions wholly within the UK. The second would introduce a requirement for in-scope multinationals to report certain information to HMRC on their cross-border related party transactions by Þling an international controlled transactions schedule. Vaping Products Duty Ñ technical consultation response The government has published its response to the Vaping Products Duty technical consultation , which sets out how it will implement the Vaping Duty Stamps scheme using hybrid physical duty stamps with digital elements which will enable tracing through the supply chain. Soft Drinks Industry Levy review The government has published a consultation on changes to the minimum sugar content threshold at which the Soft Drinks Industry Levy standard rate applies, and the removal of the current exemptions for milk-based and milk substitute drinks with added sugar, to ensure the Soft Drinks Industry Levy continues to encourage reformulation to help tackle obesity. Modernisation of the stamp taxes on shares framework The government has published a summary of responses to the 2023 consultation that sought views on detailed proposals to modernise the stamp taxes on shares framework . The government has also published a consultation seeking views on aspects of the 1.5% higher rate charge , which applies to 
