The government has announced a package of tax and customs administration and simpliÞcation measures that will collectively reduce administrative burdens to save taxpayers and traders time, and will increase certainty, allowing businesses to focus on adding value to the economy. The package covers measures to support economic growth by reducing burdens on employers and increasing certainty for businesses. It aims to modernise and reform HMRC systems and processes to simplify the experience for individuals and traders and covers measures to modernise outdated elements of the tax and customs system and tackle the backlog of reform. SimpliÞcation and modernisation of the tax and customs systems Reducing burdens on businesses to support economic growth Capital Goods Scheme simpliÞcation The government will simplify the Capital Goods Scheme by introducing the removal of computers from the assets covered by the scheme and increasing the capital expenditure value of land, buildings and civil engineering work to £600,000 (exclusive of VAT). This simpliÞcation will reduce the number of capital assets that would fall within the Capital Goods Scheme, therefore reducing the administrative burden on small businesses. Spirit Drinks VeriÞcation Scheme simpliÞcation The government will simplify the Spirit Drinks VeriÞcation Scheme, providing operators a signiÞcant reduction in the fees they pay to HMRC for veriÞcation. For operators whose current veriÞcation is due to expire on or after 1 July 2025, HMRC will charge a new ßat fee of £250 per facility every 2 years for the next 3 fee cycles, delivering simpliÞcation and parity for the UK spirits industry. Corporate Interest Restriction Administration simpliÞcation The government will engage with stakeholders on opportunities to simplify and improve the administration rules for Corporate Interest Restriction and, in particular, reporting company appointments under the regime. HMRC will establish a working group with stakeholders to take this forward. Stakeholders with relevant technical expertise who wish to join the working group should email cirworkinggroup@hmrc.gov.uk . Reform of UK law in relation to transfer pricing, permanent establishment and Diverted ProÞts Tax The government has published a consultation on draft legislation for the reform of the UKÕs international tax rules . The consultation includes proposed change to UK tax legislation in three areas: transfer pricing permanent establishment Diverted ProÞts Tax This measure follows on from a policy consultation on these matters in summer 2023. Electronic invoicing consultation As announced at Autumn Budget 2024, the government committed to consult on establishing standards for the adoption of electronic invoicing (e-invoicing) within the UK. HMRC and Department for Business and Trade have now published a consultation on promoting e-invoicing across UK businesses and the public sector seeking views on the impacts that di ! erent e-invoicing models would have on UK businesses. Reducing administrative burdens and increasing certainty for employers, and employees, to support economic growth Check Employment Status for Tax Digital Tool Revisions HMRC is revising its Check Employment Status for Tax ( CEST ) digital tool with e ! ect from 30 April 2025. These changes will make it easier for CEST Õs users to use the tool. To support these changes, HMRC will also publish revised guidance that o ! ers help on how to answer the revised questions. HMRC is committed to standing behind the outcomes of this tool where it has been used correctly. Employment related securities Ñ employerÕs National Insurance contributions elections process An employer can transfer employerÕs National Insurance contributions liability to an employee who acquires employment related securities such as shares from the employer, in certain circumstances. This measure will simplify the process to make a joint election to transfer the liability, by removing the requirement on the employer