use the tool. To support these changes, HMRC will also publish revised guidance that o ! ers help on how to answer the revised questions. HMRC is committed to standing behind the outcomes of this tool where it has been used correctly. Employment related securities Ñ employerÕs National Insurance contributions elections process An employer can transfer employerÕs National Insurance contributions liability to an employee who acquires employment related securities such as shares from the employer, in certain circumstances. This measure will simplify the process to make a joint election to transfer the liability, by removing the requirement on the employer to submit the election form to HMRC for pre-approval, where the employer is using the election form template on GOV.UK. The simpliÞcation will be introduced from 1 May 2025. Reversal of requirement to report more detailed employee hours paid As announced on 28 January 2025, the government will not be taking forward the draft Income Tax (Pay As You Earn) (Amendment) Regulations 2025. Employers will not have to provide more detailed employee hours data to HMRC from 6 April 2026. Mandating the Payrolling of beneÞts in kind update The government has announced that the mandatory reporting and paying of Income Tax and Class 1A National Insurance contributions on beneÞts in kind via payroll software, will now be introduced from 6 April 2027 instead of 6 April 2026. HMRC has published an updated technical note which provides more operational information on how employers can adapt to these changes in time for April 2027 . This updates a technical note about conÞrming plans to mandate the reporting of beneÞts in kind via payroll software from April 2026 that was published at Autumn Budget 2024. Modernising outdated elements of the tax system to simplify the customer experience Cultural Gift Scheme The government will reform the Cultural Gift Scheme by removing the restriction on jointly owned objects and allowing tax credits to be used more ßexibly. This will simplify the scheme by making it more accessible and improve take up. VAT terminal markets order consultation Ñ summary of responses The government has published a summary of responses to the consultation on the legislative reform of the VAT terminal markets order . The government will continue to engage with industry stakeholders and representatives to develop a modernised legislative framework that will reßect current and future market practices, including for evolving areas such as emissions markets. Tax Administration Framework Review compliance Ñ improving HMRCÕs approach to dispute resolution The government has published a consultation seeking views on options for simplifying, modernising and reforming HMRCÕs approach to dispute resolution . Reform is being driven by an aim to resolve cases earlier and more e ! ectively with dispute resolution methods. Tax Administration Framework Review compliance Ñ new ways to tackle non- compliance Ñ summary of responses The government has published a summary of responses to the consultation on new ways to tackle non-compliance , which explored ways to simplify and modernise HMRCÕs approach to correcting taxpayer inaccuracies. The summary of responses includes the governmentÕs intention to consider further reform of revenue correction notices, approaches to taxpayer self-correction and broader reform of enquiry and assessment powers. Reforming HMRC systems and processes to simplify individuals customer experience Income Tax Self Assessment criteria review The Income Tax Self Assessment reporting thresholds for trading, property and Ôother taxableÕ income will be aligned and changed to £3,000 (gross) each. This will remove the requirement for up to an estimated 300,000 taxpayers to submit a Self Assessment return, so that taxpayers are only required to do so where necessary. PeopleÕs tax liability will 
