sugar content threshold at which the Soft Drinks Industry Levy standard rate applies, and the removal of the current exemptions for milk-based and milk substitute drinks with added sugar, to ensure the Soft Drinks Industry Levy continues to encourage reformulation to help tackle obesity. Modernisation of the stamp taxes on shares framework The government has published a summary of responses to the 2023 consultation that sought views on detailed proposals to modernise the stamp taxes on shares framework . The government has also published a consultation seeking views on aspects of the 1.5% higher rate charge , which applies to certain transfers of UK securities overseas, with a focus on reducing unnecessary legislation and improving clarity. Modernisation will reduce complexity in the stamp taxes on shares framework while digitising and enabling faster processing of Stamp Duty transactions, resulting in improved e " ciency and a framework Þt for the modern business world. VAT online marketplace liability VAT compliance on sales of goods from overseas sellers improved signiÞcantly following reforms in 2021 which require online marketplaces to account for VAT in certain circumstances. However, some compliance challenges remain, and the government will therefore explore, including through engagement with stakeholders, the merits and value of further reform to these rules. For stakeholders who wish to register their interest in engaging with the government on this issue, please email onlinemarketplaceliability@hmtreasury.gov.uk Reducing outbound post The government is committed to modernising HMRC to become a digital Þrst organisation. The government is announcing today that HMRC will reduce paper post sent, saving £50 million per year by 2028-29, whilst maintaining paper post provision for critical correspondence and for the digitally excluded. The government will do this by investing in digital services to send and receive taxpayer information and will bring forward legislation to support a digital Þrst approach. Reducing HMRCÕs central London estate The government is committed to improving value for money in the system of tax administration, and so will be reducing the HMRC estate in central London by 25%. HMRC is already a national organisation and by 2030, 85% of HMRC sta ! will be based outside of London. Moving roles out of London in line with the governmentÕs wider Places for Growth initiative will ensure that the civil service is closer to the communities that they serve. Valuation O ! ce Agency Ahead of its review of all armÕs-length bodies, the government is conÞrming it will bring the functions of the Valuation O " ce Agency, an Executive Agency of HMRC, within HMRC, by the end of this Þnancial year. Services and information Government activity Departments Ne w s Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Policy paper Tax update spring 2025: simpliÞcation, administration and reform summary Published 28 April 2025 Back to top Is this page useful? He l p Pr i va c y Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright BeneÞts Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Menu Home Money Business tax Corporation Tax Summary of tax update spring 2025: simpliÞcation, administration and reform HM Revenue & Customs Print this page Contents SimpliÞcation and modernisation of the tax 
