share ideas and concerns with senior management. This might include engagement with trade unions, focus or consultative groups. Such forms of engagement provide useful feedback about business practices and can support the desired culture. Workforce policies and practices should be aligned with the company’s purpose and values. Such policies should establish clear procedures for raising concerns (for example, speak up and whistleblowing policies), and should be reviewed regularly to ensure that they are effective. A board should demonstrate how the company has undertaken effective engagement with material stakeholders and how such dialogue has been considered in its decision-making. Companies may also wish to comment on any good practice which may have emerged and contributed to the success of the company. Explanations in support of applying this Principle will be closely aligned to other disclosure requirements of the Regulations (section 172 reporting, and reporting on workforce engagement). Additional guidance on how to meet these requirements can be found in the FRC’s Guidance on the Strategic Report , including sections 8.14 - 8.22. 4 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS James Wates CBE and the FRC are very grateful to the Coalition Group members who played a fundamental role in developing the Wates Corporate Governance Principles for Large Private Companies along with members of the Executive Sounding Board who provided valuable support and advice throughout. Coalition Group Members Elizabeth Bagger Executive Director, Institute for Family Business Dr Roger Barker Head of Corporate Governance, Institute of Directors Matthew Fell Chief UK Policy Director, Confederation of British Industry Philippa Foster Back CBE Director, Institute of Business Ethics Paul George Executive Director Corporate Governance and Reporting, Financial Reporting Council Mark Goyder Independent Member Gurpreet Manku Director of Policy, British Private Equity & Venture Capital Association Ilaria Lavalle Miller Assistant Director Corporate Governance Reform, Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 
