the creation and protection of long-term value. Culture can be deﬁned as a combination of the values, attitudes and behaviours manifested by a company in its operations and relationships with its stakeholders. The board, shareholders and management must make and maintain a commitment to embedding the desired culture throughout the organisation. Effective ways of monitoring culture include (but are not limited to) employee surveys, engagement with trade unions, absenteeism rates, exit interviews and board feedback sessions. 6 ‘Workforce’ will involve those with formal contracts of employment (permanent, ﬁxed-term and zero-hours) and other members of the workforce who are affected by the decisions of the board, so for example companies should consider including individuals engaged under contracts of service, agency workers and remote workers. Companies should be able to explain who they have included and why. The term is not meant to align with a legal deﬁnition of employee, worker or similar. Strategy An effective board develops a strategy and business model to generate long-term sustainable value. It is responsible for ensuring that its strategy is clearly articulated and implemented throughout the organisation, and that it, along with the company values, supports appropriate behaviours and practices. The board should lead on the establishment of transparent policies in relation to raising concerns about misconduct and unethical practices; such polices should include effective review processes. The board manages conflicts of interest and a balance should be struck between short-term targets or needs, and long-term aspirations. PRINCIPLE TWO BOARD COMPOSITION Effective board composition requires an effective chair and a balance of skills, backgrounds, experience and knowledge, with individual directors having sufficient capacity to make a valuable contribution. The size of a board should be guided by the scale and complexity of the company. GUIDANCE Chair The chair leads the board and is responsible for 
