initiatives which could strengthen the governance of the company.9 Transparent corporate governance policies and practices can clarify the relationship between the company and its owners, including that of a parent company and its subsidiary in order to deliver long-term sustainable success. 9 Private companies are not required by law to have a company secretary, although it is good practice for a company to do so; therefore, some companies may have alternative arrangements. Committees A board may make use of committees to help with the consideration of matters such as ﬁnancial reporting, risk, succession and remuneration. The terms of each committee should be set out including authorities delegated to it. A board retains responsibility for any ﬁnal decisions. The provision of independent challenge in board and committee decision-making should mitigate the risk of individuals having unfettered powers. Independent challenge encourages constructive problem-solving that beneﬁts companies in the long-term. Integrity of information A board should establish formal and robust internal processes to ensure systems and controls are operating effectively, and that the quality and integrity of information provided to it is reliable, enabling directors to monitor and challenge the performance of the company, and make informed decisions. PRINCIPLE FOUR OPPORTUNITY AND RISK A board should promote the long-term sustainable success of the company by identifying opportunities to create and preserve value, and establishing oversight for the identiﬁcation and mitigation of risks. GUIDANCE Opportunity A board should consider and assess how the company creates and preserves value over the long-term. This requires boards to consider both tangible and intangible sources of value, and the stakeholders that contribute to it. This should include processes for the identiﬁcation of future opportunities for innovation and entrepreneurship. Such opportunities may often be dependent on an agreed risk appetite and the company’s long-term strategy and prospects. It may