to committees which can consider speciﬁc issues such as risk or remuneration; however, this will be dependent on structure, complexity and size of the company. Effectiveness The closely held nature of ownership within many large private companies means directors are often required to maintain objectivity in complex situations, in particular when there is an influential shareholder. Companies should demonstrate a commitment to the ongoing professional development of their board, and directors should embrace such opportunities and ensure that they have sufficient time to discharge their duties. Regular evaluation of the board can help individual directors to contribute effectively and highlight the strengths and weaknesses of the board as a whole. The chair should act on the recommendations of such evaluations. This approach may be part of board refreshment and succession plans. PRINCIPLE THREE DIRECTOR RESPONSIBILITIES The board and individual directors should have a clear understanding of their accountability and responsibilities. The board’s policies and procedures should support effective decision-making and independent challenge. GUIDANCE Accountability An effective board should establish and maintain corporate governance practices that provide clear lines of accountability and responsibility to support effective decision-making. Clear corporate governance policies, practices and company leadership, all working together, promote effective stewardship to deliver long-term value. A company should set out policies and practices that govern the internal affairs of the company. These include matters relating to the authority, accountability, role and conduct of directors, and may include speciﬁc information relating to shareholders, such as shareholder agreements and protection of minority shareholders. Conflicts of interest can arise and compromise objective decision-making. In such cases the board should agree and set out how such conflicts should be identiﬁed and managed. The chair and the company secretary should periodically review the governance processes to conﬁrm that they remain ﬁt for purpose and consider any 
