the subsidiary. PRINCIPLE SIX STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS AND ENGAGEMENT Directors should foster effective stakeholder relationships aligned to the company’s purpose. The board is responsible for overseeing meaningful engagement with stakeholders, including the workforce, and having regard to their views when taking decisions. GUIDANCE External impacts Large private companies create their own social, economic and environmental impact, but are also affected by changes to their operating environment. Sustainable business beneﬁts wider society, and large private companies have a responsibility to create and sustain long-term value for their shareholders and stakeholders. This includes consideration of how a company’s activities may impact both current and future stakeholders, which, for example, could include impacts on the environment. Stakeholders Dialogue with stakeholders helps boards understand the effects of company policies and practices, predict future developments and trends, and re-align strategy. A company should identify and prioritise stakeholder relationships for those affected by company operations and are integral to its ability to generate and preserve value. These are likely to vary dependent on the size and nature of the company. Stakeholders include the workforce, customers and suppliers, but also other material stakeholders speciﬁc to company circumstances or sectors, such as regulators, Governments, pensioners, creditors and community groups. The board should present to stakeholders a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the company’s position and prospects and make this available on an annual basis. Boards should ensure that there are channels to receive appropriate feedback from discussions with stakeholders. When explaining impact on the community or environment, boards may want to refer to recognised international standards or frameworks that it follows. Workforce For many large private companies, their largest material stakeholder group is their workforce. Companies should develop a range of formal and informal channels that enable them to engage in meaningful two-way dialogue, enabling the workforce to 
