its overall effectiveness, promoting open debate and facilitating constructive discussion. The chair should ensure that all directors have appropriate information and sufficient time is made available for meaningful discussion. Consideration should be given to separating the roles of the chair and chief executive to ensure a balance of power and effective decision-making. Balance and diversity A balanced board promotes effective decision-making and supports the delivery of a company’s strategy. An effective board has an appropriate combination of skills, backgrounds, experience and knowledge that promotes accountability and incorporates objective thought, which in turn provides constructive challenge to achieve effective decision-making. The board should collectively demonstrate a high-level of understanding relevant to the company’s business needs and stakeholder interests. Appointments to the board should promote diversity in line with the protected characteristics within the Equalities Act 2010.7 An effective board should be able to demonstrate that there has been a considered effort to establish an appropriate balance of expertise, diversity and objectivity. A policy on diversity and inclusion aligned to company strategy can support appointments to the board and succession planning. Such a policy should also consider targets and aspirations promoted by Government and industry initiatives or expert reviews.8 7 Which protects against discrimination for those with protected characteristics within the meaning of the Equalities Act 2010 www.legislation.gov.uk/ ukpga/2010/15/section/4 8 The Hampton-Alexander Review and The McGregor- Smith Review are examples of reviews that promote diversity targets. Size and structure A board should give careful consideration to its size and structure so that it is appropriate to meet the strategic needs and challenges of the organisation and enables effective decision-making. Companies should consider the value of appointing independent non-executive directors to offer constructive challenge. Appointment of independent non-executive directors should be subject to a transparent procedure. Boards may wish to delegate some functions 
