of a company, taking into account pay and conditions elsewhere in the company. GUIDANCE Setting remuneration Appropriate and fair levels of remuneration help companies to secure and retain high-quality directors, senior management and their workforce. Remuneration for directors and senior managers should be aligned with performance, behaviours, and the achievement of company purpose, values and strategy. In setting director and senior manager remuneration consideration should be given to remuneration throughout the organisation to reinforce a sense of shared purpose. Policies The board should establish clear policies on remuneration structures and practices which should enable effective accountability to shareholders. This should take account of the broader operating context, including the pay and conditions of the wider workforce and the company’s response to matters such as any gender pay gap. Such accountability can be supported by clear remuneration structures that are aligned with the company’s purpose, values and culture, and the delivery of strategy to support long-term sustainable success. Policies may include robust consideration of the reputational and behavioural risks to the company that can result from inappropriate incentives and excessive rewards. Boards should consider the beneﬁts of greater transparency of remuneration structures and policies which will build trust from wider stakeholders. Additional transparency could extend to commenting on how executive remuneration reflects general practice within the sector or voluntary disclosure of pay ratios. Delegating remuneration decisions The establishment of a committee is a way some boards may wish to delegate responsibility for designing remuneration policies and structures for directors and senior management. Such a committee might beneﬁt from the contribution of an independent non-executive director. Subsidiary companies In some companies, director pay will be controlled by a parent company, and in such circumstances the subsidiary should explain this and cross-refer to information available elsewhere which explains the policy in relation to 
