for ﬁnancial years starting on or after 1 January 2019. Companies will be able to adopt the Wates Principles as an appropriate framework when making a disclosure about their corporate governance arrangements under the Government’s new reporting requirement. In addition, the Wates Principles offer companies an effective way of linking their corporate governance statement to the other reporting requirements. Explanations of the application of the Wates Principles combined with and cross-referred to other reporting will together achieve an increase in transparency from large private companies and contribute to building trust. 5 The regulations use the term ‘employee’ whereas the Wates Principles use ‘workforce’, which is explained under Principle One. HOW TO REPORT The Wates Principles recognise the variety of large private companies incorporated within the UK. Differing management and ownership structures means that a ‘one-size-ﬁts-all’ approach to corporate governance in large private companies is not appropriate. A company that adopts the Wates Principles should follow them using an ‘apply and explain’ approach in a way that is most appropriate for their particular organisation. Accordingly, boards should apply each Principle by considering them individually within the context of the company’s speciﬁc circumstances. They should then be able to explain in their own words how they have addressed them in their governance practices. This approach - in which one applies principles is not new. UK premium listed companies are subject to the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, which require a statement of how the Principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied in a manner that shareholders can evaluate. The UK Corporate Governance Code also includes Provisions that a company should additionally comply with - or offer an explanation where it does not. The Wates Principles take a different approach; they do not set out detailed provisions, but 
