Regulations will also be required to provide a section 172 statement, and unnecessary repetition can be avoided by cross-referral. The FRC’s Guidance on the Strategic Report can support companies in meeting these and other reporting requirements. For example, it considers risks and opportunities arising from factors such as climate change and the environment. It also suggests methods for engagement with the workforce. THE SIX PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE ONE PURPOSE AND LEADERSHIP An effective board develops and promotes the purpose of a company, and ensures that its values, strategy and culture align with that purpose. GUIDANCE Purpose A well developed and deﬁned purpose will help companies of all sizes and structures articulate their business model and develop their strategy, operating practices, workforce,6 and approach to risk. All directors should promote the success of the company. Boards should have a clear understanding of the views of shareholders including those with a minority interest. Directors should act with integrity and lead by example, setting the tone from the top, building positive relationships with all stakeholders, particularly the workforce. Effective boards ensure that the company operates with a clear sense of purpose and collective vision. To promote this, boards will appreciate the importance of dialogue with the workforce and wider stakeholders around the company’s stated purpose and be proactive in ensuring that it takes place. Effective boards are able to demonstrate how the sharing of this purpose has informed the decision-making process to achieve long-term sustainable success. Values and Culture A company’s purpose and values should inform expected behaviours and practices throughout the organisation. The values should be explained and integrated into the different functions and operations of the business. This may include internal assurance, employment practices, risk management and compliance functions. A healthy culture is critical to the company’s competitive advantage, and vital to