businesses eligible to claim it. Another high-pro ! le change is the abolition, from 6 April 2025, of the existing remittance basis system of taxing non-UK domiciled individuals on foreign income and gains (also known as the 'non-dom regime'). The replacement Foreign Income and Gains ('FIG') regime is contained in the Finance Bill 2024-25, which is likely to become law during March 2025. Rachel Reeves previously said at the World Economic Forum in Davos that changes would be made to increase the generosity of the temporary repatriation facility, which allows individuals who have paid tax on the remittance basis to pay tax at a " at 12% or 15% rate on remitted amounts for a limited time period. This facility is in the Finance Bill that 's currently passing through Parliament, and Report Stage amendments have been laid by the government, but it would be di # cult to describe these as increasing the generosity of the regime. It will be interesting to see if Rachel Reeves includes any changes during the Spring Statement. There are more tax rises on the horizon. Entrepreneurs and investors looking to sell assets will pay higher rates of Capital Gains Tax (CGT) from April 2025 if they are claiming Business Asset Disposal Relief or Investors' Relief, subject to the enactment of the Finance Bill. There are also major changes ahead for carried interest, with an increase in the CGT rate to 32% from 6 April 2025 and wider reforms to the tax treatment of carried interest from April 2026. Draft legislation will be published later in 2025, following a recent consultation. Tax administration The government will continue its work to close the tax gap and modernise the tax system. The ambitious plans include recruiting an additional 5,000 compliance staff, focusing additional resources on areas of greatest complexity and return, investing in modernising IT and data systems, and improving HMRC customer service, although the timing of these actions has not been speci ! ed. The interest charged by HMRC on late tax payments will increase, from 6 April 2025, by 1.5% to the Bank of England base rate plus 4%. This, as the government stated at the Autumn Budget 2024, is to encourage prompt payment by taxpayers and ensure fairness for those who pay their tax on time. The above is just the tip of the iceberg of all the changes happening in 2025 Ð visit our UK Tax Policy Map to see many more. *** Changes coming into force in 2025 " When in 2025? ! What happens? ! Business taxes 1 January New merged R&D regime for companies with a December year end R&D disclosure facility for overclaimed R&D relief 1 January Enhanced relief for visual effects for costs incurred from 1 January 2025 $ January First reporting of data by digital platform operators $ 17 February Implementation of 40% business rates relief for ! lm studios, with relief backdated to 1 April 2024 1 April $ First claims for the Independent Films Tax Credit and enhanced relief for visual effects $ April Business rates - Retail, Hospitality and Leisure Relief extended by a further year from April 2025, at a 40% reduced discount rate Business rates charitable relief for private schools ends $ 30 June $ One-time Pillar Two top-up tax registration with HMRC to be completed by in scope groups within 6 months from the end of the groupÕs ! rst accounting period within the scope of the rules, e.g., 30 June 2025 for groups with an accounting period that ended on 31 December 2024. $ Indirect taxes 1 January Removal