Brie ! ng document UK Tax: Navigating 2025's Changes 14 March 2025 The tax landscape has been shifting dramatically, and 2025 promises no respite. While not a full- blown ! scal event, the upcoming Spring Statement on 26 March could unveil new consultations and outcomes from previous ones. Tax professionals are already navigating a slew of changes this year Ð we've summarised the key ones in a handy table below. All this amidst the government 's broader push for growth, heightened UK competitiveness (in an increasingly competitive global landscape), and tax simpli ! cation. Business taxes Pillar Two rules, mandating a minimum 15% tax rate, are already in effect in the UK. These rules bring signi ! cant additional tax compliance requirements. In-scope groups are currently preparing for their ! rst information return ! lings due in June 2026. Looking ahead, in-scope multinational groups with a UK presence, as well as UK domestic groups, must register with HMRC within six months from the end of their ! rst accounting period subject to the rules. For December year-end groups, this deadline falls on 30 June 2025. The transition to the modernised R&D regime continues in 2025, with companies operating on a December year-end entering the new merged regime from 1 January. As part of HMRC's ongoing efforts to curb error and fraud in R&D claims, a new R&D-speci ! c disclosure facility comes into effect on 1 January 2025. This facility allows companies that have previously over-claimed R&D tax relief to rectify their position. Additionally, creative industries, identi ! ed as a key growth- driving sector, will bene ! t from enhanced relief for visual effects. This enhancement increases the after-tax effective tax rate of relief from 20.4% to 29.25% on costs incurred from 1 January 2025. Retail, hospitality, and leisure businesses will retain their business rates relief during 2025 (until April 2026), although at a reduced discount rate of 40% from April 2025. Indirect taxes As previously announced, education services and vocational training provided by a private school or a "connected person" for consideration, as well as boarding services "closely related" to such supplies, are now subject to 20% VAT. In England, from April 2025, private schools will no longer qualify for the business rates charitable rate relief. Personal and employment taxes Several tax-raising measures are coming into force this year for employers and individual taxpayers. The increase in the employers' National Insurance Contributions ("NICs") rate and decrease in the earnings threshold from which it applies from 6 April 2025 have been criticised by many businesses and representative bodies, warning of lower pay increases, job losses, and potentially higher prices for customers. Businesses in low-wage sectors are also faced with increases in the National Minimum and Living Wage levels and may struggle to absorb the higher costs. The increased amount and expanded eligibility of the Employment Allowance are likely to feel like a drop in the ocean in terms of mitigating the increased costs for at least some of the businesses eligible to claim it. Another high-pro ! le change is the abolition, from 6 April 2025, of the existing remittance basis system of taxing non-UK domiciled individuals on foreign income and gains (also known as the 'non-dom regime'). The replacement Foreign Income and Gains ('FIG') regime is contained in the Finance Bill 2024-25, which is likely to become law during March 2025. Rachel Reeves previously said at the World Economic Forum in Davos that changes would be made to increase the generosity of the temporary repatriation facility, which allows individuals who have paid tax on the remittance basis to