should enable the use of discretion to override formulaic outcomes. Directors’ contracts and/or other agreements or documents which cover director remuneration should include malus and clawback provisions that would enable the company to recover and/or withhold sums or share awards, and specify the circumstances in which it would be appropriate to do so. The annual report on remuneration should include a description of its malus and clawback provisions, including: the circumstances in which malus and clawback provisions could be used; a description of the period for malus and clawback and why the selected period is best suited to the organisation; and whether the provisions were used in the last reporting period. If so, a clear explanation of the reason should be provided in the annual report. Only basic salary should be pensionable. The pension contribution rates for executive directors, or payments in lieu, should be aligned with those available to the workforce. The pension consequences and associated costs of basic salary increases and any other changes in pensionable remuneration, or contribution rates, particularly for directors close to retirement, should be carefully considered when compared with workforce arrangements. Notice or contract periods should be one year or less. If it is necessary to offer longer periods to new directors recruited from outside the company, such periods should reduce to one year or less after the initial period. The remuneration committee should ensure compensation commitments in directors’ terms of appointment do not reward poor performance. They should be robust in reducing compensation to reflect departing directors’ obligations to mitigate loss. 14 See footnote 4. There should be a description of the work of the remuneration committee in the annual report, including: an explanation of the strategic rationale for executive directors’ remuneration policies, structures and any performance metrics; reasons why the remuneration is 
