it to discharge its governance responsibilities under the Code effectively. This includes the communication of the parent company’s purpose, values and strategy. Externally managed investment companies (which typically have a different board and company structure that may affect the relevance of particular Principles) may wish to use the Association of Investment Companies’ Corporate Governance Code to meet their obligations under the Code. In addition, the Association of Financial Mutuals produces an annotated version of the Code for mutual insurers to use. Section 1 – Board leadership and company purpose Principles A successful company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial board, whose role is to promote the long-term sustainable success of the company, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society. The board should ensure that the necessary resources, policies and practices are in place for the company to meet its objectives and measure performance against them. The board should establish the company’s purpose, values and strategy, and satisfy itself that these and its culture are all aligned. All directors must act with integrity, lead by example and promote the desired culture. Governance reporting should focus on board decisions and their outcomes in the context of the company’s strategy and objectives. Where the board reports on departures from the Code’s provisions, it should provide a clear explanation. In order for the company to meet its responsibilities to shareholders and stakeholders, the board should ensure effective engagement with, and encourage participation from, these parties. The board should ensure that workforce policies and practices are consistent with the company’s values and support its long-term sustainable success. The workforce should be able to raise any matters of concern. Provisions The board should assess the basis on which the company generates and preserves value over the long-term. It should describe in the annual 
