Inspection and Supervision Report: this report sets out findings and good practice in audits conducted by Tier 2 and Tier 3 firms (December 2022). What Makes a Good Environment for Auditor Scepticism and Challenge: this report sets out the key attributes of an environment that supports professional scepticism and challenge (November 2022). Professional Judgement Guidance: this report provides a framework to assist audit teams to improve their understanding of areas where the application of professional judgement is most critical, and the quality of their judgements (June 2022). What Makes a Good Audit: this report sets out examples of good practices we have seen across the elements now within ISQM 1 (November 2021). Governance and leadership| Governance and leadership structures and behaviours are key for all audit firms. In particular: The individuals assigned ultimate responsibility and oversight for the SoQM must be sufficiently senior and knowledgeable about the ISQM1 requirements and functioning of the firm’s SoQM. There must be mechanisms for those deemed responsible for the SoQM to be held accountable, including reflection in their appraisals and remuneration. Leaders are expected to prioritise quality in their strategy, communications and business decisions. A firm moving into the PIE audit space must ensure that its strategy and investment in human and technical resources is aligned with attaining audit quality objectives. The firm must embed a culture that promotes and incentivises audit quality, including through its remuneration and promotion processes.| Risk assessment process| All audit firms must identify their quality objectives and perform a full assessment of possible risks to their objectives, considering their likelihood and impact, and then identify mitigating responses. Firms looking to enter or grow in the PIE audit market must ensure that their quality objectives and risks clearly reflect their intended strategy and that: Risks identified are sufficiently granular so 
