the entity and prompt the audit team to develop entity-specific procedures as well as evidencing the work they have performed and the conclusions reached. Checklist approaches are unlikely to be sufficient. Developing specific workpapers for complex audit areas to support engagement performance in terms of the extent and depth of procedures required and how these are evidenced.| Developing templates for audit reports and reporting to those charged with governance, including ones that address the additional reporting requirements for PIEs. Ensuring disclosure checklists are high quality and easy to use and that sufficient procedures are performed (and evidenced) to support complex or significant disclosures. Ensuring audit software can be, and is, consistently used to monitor changes to audit files after the audit report is signed. Ensuring compliance with archiving deadlines and that archived files can only be amended in limited circumstances, for administrative purposes. Considering what audit tools would be beneficial to the audit practice, for example, for data analytics, planning and concluding analytical procedures, and facilitating access to relevant market, industry and financial information. Network resources and service providers Smaller audit firms may be more likely to rely on external service providers (or their international networks) in relation to, for example, audit software, methodology, EQCR services and quality monitoring. Firms must identify all such providers that form part of the firm’s system of quality management, understand how they are used in the system and assess their significance. For each provider, the quality risks must be adequately assessed to ensure the service can be relied upon for the purpose used and that action is taken to mitigate any quality risks. Firms will need to consider what information they need from service providers and networks, or other sources, to perform this assessment. | Monitoring and remediation| This is an area of focus 
