will arise. Early adoption of ISQM (UK) 1 is strongly encouraged. Governance and leadership Developing and maintaining an environment and culture for the delivery of high-quality auditing is driven by clear governance and leadership, which emphasises the importance of quality and the expected behaviours of the audit engagement team. Over recent years many audit firms have strengthened their culture, governance and leadership through the appointment of a range of independent non-executives, increasing the influence of the Head of Audit, strengthening both the technical teams and the role and resources of the Ethics function and the Ethics Partner. As part of our focus on leadership and governance, we have set out our expectations of the experience, skills and attributes of candidates for the key roles of Independent Non- Executives, Heads of UK firm, Chairs, Heads of Audit and Ethics partners at the major firms. In a pre-appointment meeting3 we assess how well we believe appointees meet these criteria and feed this back to senior management of the firm. Senior leadership must live and drive the right values, ethics and behaviours that support high audit quality throughout the firm. There must be a clear link between remuneration/ promotion and audit quality. Learning from audit inspections (internal and external) must be shared across the audit practice and understood, including the sharing of good practice identified within the firm or from external reviews. There must also be an emphasis on the public interest role of audit. At the larger firms, Independent Non-Executives (INEs) already have an important role to play in holding leadership to account for improving audit quality and for driving an appropriate culture and mindset within audit. 3 https://www.frc.org.uk/auditors/audit-firm-supervision-and-audit-market-supervisio/pre-appointment-meetings Performance monitoring and remediation An effective quality management system needs an effective feedback loop to monitor performance of the audit practice. Effective monitoring 
