with the audit team. Promoting a culture of consultation with central technical teams encourages scepticism and challenge. This is supported by guidance on when, and with whom, to consult. Required consultations in areas of recent audit quality findings can drive improvements. Analysis of consultations raised can identify where additional guidance or support is needed. Audits can be enhanced by using a wide range of specialists and experts, who can advise the audit team or perform audit procedures based on their in-depth technical knowledge and skills in particular areas. Consulting with specialists enables challenge of management, particularly when management use specialists or has technical experience that the audit team do not. Effective engagement is driven by guidance on when, and to what extent, to involve a specialist or expert, based on the particular audit, the skills of the audit practice, and areas of recent audit quality findings. Centres of excellence perform audit procedures across numerous engagements. Using them for complex or judgemental areas allows better benchmarking between entities, enables challenge, and avoids auditors performing procedures where they lack experience and skills. Centres of excellence can also issue guidance and resources. Sharing market and industry knowledge within the audit practice increases access to evidence, benchmarking, and good practice that can drive the challenge of management’s judgements. Access to external data, e.g., analyst reports, industry analysis/forecasts, and market financial data, enables identifying contradictory evidence to encourage professional scepticism. External data sources are most useful when auditors receive training on how to use them. Good practice – audit firm processes| “One firm requires hot reviewers to focus on the culture of challenge, using an aide memoir covering types of bias, red flags that could indicate insufficient challenge, and reminders of what evidence of challenge is expected.” “One firm runs thematic hot reviews on focus 
