to reinforce a culture that is focused on quality and in which scepticism and challenges are expected and encouraged. Partners have a key role in driving scepticism and challenge in the way that they embed audit firm-wide messages on a day-to-day basis. Communicating the priorities of the audit, from the initial meeting and then throughout (e.g. quality vs deadlines), is key to audit managers and junior auditors feeling confident that they should be prioritising quality, scepticism and challenge. Audit Culture Thematic Review (May 2018). (https://www.frc.org.uk/getattachment/2f8d6070-e41b-4576-9905-4aeb7df8dd7e/Audit- Culture-Thematic-Review.pdf) It is crucial that leadership’s messaging around scepticism and challenge is consistent and sustained even in the midst of workload pressure and hybrid working arrangements, which could act as barriers to auditors demonstrating these behaviours. Good practice – leadership| “Most firms reported strong leadership backing when faced with difficult management at audited entities. This included the involvement of the Head of Audit when a difficult conversation was warranted.” “One firm is trialling a new initiative for partners that uses psychometric assessment tools to help partners identify how their personality may be conducive to, or inhibit, audit quality, including an increased awareness of how their behaviour may change under pressure.” “Many auditors referenced partners, directors and senior managers that have clear ‘open door policies’, including formal and informal routes of contact (i.e. direct messages as well as emails), as being the key conduits for how scepticism and challenge are talked about within firms.”| Communication Culture change can be achieved by getting the language and communication right. Audit firms should clearly communicate the acceptable and expected auditor behaviours with consistency in messaging and signalling. Communications which are grounded in specific, real-life examples are considered to be most effective. In particular, storytelling and sharing real-life examples of high-quality and more challenging audits is one of the most