the implementation of a well-developed retaliation monitoring process. Continuous review and analysis of the root cause of misconduct and the appropriate reporting and sharing of lessons learnt and actions taken. A framework that supports challenge and speaking up includes: Commitment from leaders and those in governance positions to foster a speak-up workplace culture through effective oversight and timely response. Well-designed policies and procedures that are updated regularly and referenced frequently to create a high level of awareness. Sufficient allocation of time and resources to clearly defined and well communicated roles and responsibilities reinforced through a system of accountability. People are encouraged and empowered to challenge and speak up in a culture where: Participation and collaboration are invited, listening is modelled, ‘voice’ is rewarded, and purpose as well as the interdependence of team members are emphasised, creating an environment where people feel safe to speak up. There is agreement on what constitutes misconduct and an understanding of the firm’s culturally accepted norms. Effectiveness in achieving a speak-up culture is measured through: Development of measures indicative of desirable outcomes and continual assessment against these measures. Designing initiatives that would achieve the desired outcomes and incorporate learnings from measurement activities. Processes Speak-up arrangements encompass all the processes a firm must put in place to create an environment that is conducive to effective speak-up and challenge and where people are able, willing, and confident to raise concerns or report misconduct. It also includes setting guidance for effectively handling and resolving such concerns raised and reporting the outcomes to those in governance positions while incorporating the learnings back into the processes to ensure continuous improvement. Communication Communication is a key pillar of effective speak-up, and promoting a speak-up culture requires constant work and commitment. Behavioural science research confirms the importance of supplementing compliance-based tools, such 
