management ensures that audit engagements have the right auditors doing the audit at the right time. Tracking auditors’ experience and skills enables better resource allocations. Review of the resource budgets centrally and by the audit partner, with consideration of milestones, firm policies, and timelines agreed with management, ensures audit budgets remain realistic. Effective project management drives timely audit work and partner/manager engagement, mitigating the risk of identifying issues late, when auditors feel less able to challenge or perform additional work. Timely senior auditor engagement during planning allows work to be performed right the first time. Good project management also ensures entity management keeps to agreed schedules to ensure sufficient time for review and challenge. Audit firms facilitate good project management by setting and monitoring milestones for when audit phases, like planning, need to be completed, issuing guidance on when to perform and complete different audit procedures, providing training and tools to empower audit teams to keep themselves and management to timelines, and supporting auditors to push back audit deadlines where management deliverables were late. Audit firms identify individuals under excessive pressure by prospective review of work portfolios and, retrospective monitoring of hours worked, with follow up of outliers. This requires realistic expectations of what hours can be worked without compromising audit quality and ensuring that follow-up of outliers considers risks to audit quality as well as individual wellbeing. Monitoring hours requires recording all hours, despite any commercial pressures to under-record. Good practice – resource & project management| “One firm mandates milestones for all audits for planning, pre-year-end testing, and controls testing to drive completion of 30% of audit hours before year-end. Other firms use multiple milestone programs, so the timing and number of milestones vary based on audit size.” “Most firms run a weekly report to monitor audit hours charged, 
