planning the group audit approach and communicating that to the component auditors. Good quality audits apply the above attributes across the various components based on a clear shared understanding between the group and component teams particularly in determining which components are significant and the audit approach required. These will be demonstrated through ongoing, timely interactions and robust challenge from both the group and component audit teams, as well as including topco teams in the discussion with local management and those charged with governance. The audit approach must be clearly communicated to those charged with governance. When there is clear documentation of the detailed correspondence and discussion between the audit team, management and those charged with governance, it evidences that the audit plan is well understood by all. Communication of any changes to the approach, and the rationale behind those changes, also ensures that the audit approach is understood. We have also seen some common shortcomings in planning, which auditors should seek to avoid: Each of the sub-components of planning had been treated as discrete activities completed by different people with limited cross correlation of information. Risk assessments were generic, theoretical and focused on the net risk, that is after the presumed application of a stated control and having regard to a view on management’s integrity. The absence of informed and rationalised expectations linked to the business model and sector norms for the company being audited. High level planning analytical review which did not consider the full financial reporting period, the risk of management bias and the inter-relationship of key data, key expectations and business processes. Fraud risk assessments which were biased towards journals testing and presumed that a detectable fraud would be individually material and affect the financial statements. In addition to the above, we have periodically heard in our