transparency. Ensuring that the firm’s audit software enables an audit file to be frozen at the archiving date.| Resources| Adequate resources are essential for all audit firms. When entering or growing in the PIE audit market, firms must consider specifically how their resources are appropriate for PIE audits. This will include:| People Ensuring that audit staff and partners are appropriately trained, with sufficient ongoing training to respond to changes in technical accounting and auditing standards, and to quality issues and findings that arise. Where firms are looking to enter or grow in the PIE audit market, they need to ensure that sufficient staff and partners receive training on the technical, ethical and regulatory requirements for PIEs, including IFRS requirements. Monitoring the content and effectiveness of training, to ensure it is responsive to the needs and activities of the audit practice, reflecting changes to the firm’s audit portfolio. Providing staff and partners within the audit team with soft skills training to ensure their ability to challenge management and to raise challenges internally. Developing appraisal, remuneration and promotion processes that incentivise audit quality above commercial factors so that people can see what the firm values. Firms should also consider using ad-hoc and non-financial recognition schemes to encourage a culture of calling out and rewarding quality on an ongoing basis. Actively assessing and monitoring their own culture to ensure it promotes quality and challenge.| Technology Ensuring the audit software and methodology used by the firm drives compliance with the ISA requirements and the firm’s policies, for example through embedded audit workpapers and prompts for key planning and completion procedures. The audit software should prompt additional audit and reporting requirements for PIE audits. If this is not in-built, the firm must develop additional PIE-specific procedures. Developing audit workpapers that adequately address considerations specific to 
