this document to provide a comprehensive analysis of every aspect of what makes a good audit firm. In the table on page 9 we set out a selection of specific good practices we have seen and we consider likely to be most impactful in improving audit quality. Aspect|Good practice| Culture|A desired culture that promotes the purpose of audit and supports challenge by audit teams, as well as an internal ‘speak up’ culture. Leaders exhibit the desired culture, and the employee experience is aligned to it. The culture is regularly assessed and action taken to remove barriers to embedding the desired culture.| Governance and leadership|Individuals in key governance roles are not overstretched (for example, by also having sizeable audit portfolios). Leaders have sufficient management information to assess and oversee audit quality both across the audit practice and on specific engagements.| Ethical requirements|The ethics function has well-documented roles and processes, particularly around NAS and length of tenure. Consultation requirements are clearly mandated and consultations are properly recorded.| Acceptance and continuance|Audit growth is targeted to types of entity and sectors where the firm has sufficient. available resources and the necessary expertise. Regular reviews are undertaken to assess whether the audit portfolio is aligned to the firm’s risk appetite and its resources (quantity and experience).| Resources - methodology|Guidance for audit teams is readily accessible and embedded within the audit methodology where possible. Off-the-shelf audit methodology is augmented by bespoke procedures for more complex audit areas, PIE-specific requirements and entity-specific issues.| Resources - people|Individual RI portfolios are regularly reviewed and aligned to their skills and capacity. Audit quality is assessed as part of partner and staff appraisals and linked to reward and recognition. A holistic, mandatory training programme covers technical and soft skills, including how to challenge management.| Audit team support|Investment in sufficient, appropriately experienced