client relationship. The use of AQMs also encourages the early involvement of specialists and the EQCR team which assists in avoiding any late surprises.” Quality Monitoring In line with auditing standards requirements, all firms have established a quality monitoring process that inspects, on a cyclical basis, at least one completed engagement for each engagement partner, sometimes referred to as ‘cold reviews’. Firms are also implementing ‘hot reviews’ which are performed whilst the audit is in progress. Hot reviews act as a preventative control and aim to provide ‘real-time’ assurance, to identify and share common themes and challenges and to assist teams in complex and judgemental areas. Due to the recurring nature of some quality review findings by internal and external (including regulatory) inspections the firms should re-evaluate the effectiveness of their overall monitoring approach, including hot reviews, and assess how it integrates with the other elements of the quality control system in order to effectively and sustainably remediate the recurring deficiencies. Resources – Resource planning and people management People are key to performing high-quality audits. Audit firms need to attract and retain the highest quality talent. It is essential that firms have sufficient, suitably trained and experienced staff to service their existing portfolio and support growth plans, both in terms of client numbers and sector expertise. Most audits, particularly after the first year, have an expected workflow profile. Operational information should be proactively shared and consolidated to ensure that there is sufficient resource to meet the expected workflows. Despite the best planning, some challenges and unexpected events do arise, so it is important to have sufficient capacity to manage these reasonable extra demands of an active client portfolio. We have already discussed the importance of this as part of the engagement perspective in “Risk assessment and planning” above. Operationally, audit 
