of the entity including, for example, its structure and the existence of overseas components. The nature of the entity’s business, internal control environment and transactions, and the basis of accounting (potentially International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) rather than UK Financial Reporting Standards (FRS)). The extent and types of technical and sector-specific knowledge and skills needed. The need for expert or specialist input, including technical support for the audit team. The audit approach including when a controls-based approach may be appropriate. The extent of judgements and estimates in the financial statements. The laws and regulations applicable to an entity that is listed or operating in a regulated area such as banking, financial services and insurance. The level of sophistication of the entity’s management, including the adequacy of the information they prepare for their internal reporting and for the audit. Findings in the above areas feature heavily in our inspections of audits at firms with smaller PIE audit portfolios. The foundations that will enable a firm to deliver consistently high-quality audits across its entire audit portfolio include: The firm’s leadership demonstrating an appropriate ‘tone from the top’ that focuses on embedding an environment that develops audit as a specialism and is focused on audit quality and continuous improvement. The firm’s culture must support the development and exercise of the right mindset and behaviours by audit teams to ensure appropriate professional scepticism and challenge. Poor quality auditing of judgement and estimates, which require audit teams to gather evidence to corroborate management’s representations and apply appropriate professional scepticism and challenge, is one of the most common areas of findings in inspection work carried out by the FRC and the RSBs. A system of quality management (SoQM), developed in accordance with each of the elements of ISQM 1, that is appropriate to the firm’s current 
