importance to audit quality and firm resilience. We recognise that as the regulator, our experiences and insight into the firms are unique. As an improvement regulator, by summarising our views on what we see and sharing this with the wider market, we can encourage the spread of good practices, leading to continual improvement in audit quality. The FRC issued Professional Judgement Guidance1 in June 2022 to enhance the consistency and quality of professional judgement exercised by auditors. The guidance highlighted that professional scepticism is a key part of an appropriate auditor mindset, supporting the judgements made on an audit. It outlined the psychological factors and the range of biases that can hinder objective reasoning and challenge. It also outlined the factors that may be present in the environment of those making a judgement (‘environmental factors’) that can impact how easy or difficult it is to exercise scepticism and challenge in an appropriate manner. In this paper, we set out the key attributes of a high-quality audit environment that enable professional scepticism and challenge in an audit, linking to the environmental factors outlined in the Professional Judgement Guidance. It describes what good looks like and provides examples of good practice in each area, identified from our supervision work. It also draws on insight from the FRC Culture Conference2 held in 2021 and the ‘Collection of Perspectives’ publication3, highlighting that all parties in the audit ecosystem accept that there is more work to be done in this area. This paper is part of the series “What Makes a Good. ” building on the well received ‘What Makes a Good Audit?’ paper, providing further insight into how an audit practice can create a good environment for auditors to exercise professional scepticism and provide challenges to management. Professional Judgement Guidance (June 2022). (https://www.frc.org.uk/getattachment/fff79ba1-3b5a-4c04-8f1e-eb8df3aacd40/FRC- Professional-Judgement-Guidance_June-2022.pdf) 
