FRC Conference Audit Firm Culture: Challenge. Trust. Transformation (June 2021). (https://www.frc.org.uk/auditors/audit-firm- supervision/frc-culture-conference) Audit Firm Culture: Challenge. Trust. Transformation. A Collection of Perspectives (November 2021). (https://www.frc.org.uk/ getattachment/fe2b0d35-aeb0-4d3c-8c96-cb04ac0f449d/FRC-Audit-Firm-Culture-Collection-of-Perspectives_December-2021.pdf) Professional scepticism - definition4| An attitude that includes a questioning mind, being alert to conditions which may indicate possible misstatement due to error or fraud, and a critical assessment of audit evidence. Professional scepticism must be exercised across the entire audit, although it may be particularly apparent when assessing management’s judgements and estimates. Judgement involves the application of training, knowledge and expertise, and an auditor’s judgement is significantly influenced by their mindset. Exercising judgement requires a mindset of professional scepticism and challenge and an environment that promotes auditors to exercise this mindset.| To gather evidence for this paper we engaged a third party to undertake focus groups at the audit firms, and they produced an independent report. The focus groups uncovered some key drivers and barriers within the environment of the audit firm that either encourage or inhibit an auditor’s ability to show scepticism and challenge during their day-to-day work on audit engagements. The findings from the focus groups were combined with our own analysis of information provided by the firms to form the basis for our good practice highlights. We consider four key elements of a good environment for scepticism and challenge: the learning environment, culture and operating model of the audit firm, as well as the interactions that the audit firm has with parties in the wider ecosystem. This paper sets out these four elements, highlighting good practice in each. The FRC is committed to working with audit firms, and other stakeholders, to improve audit quality and, as a result, ensure better outcomes for stakeholders who rely on the accuracy and integrity of a company’s financial performance and prospects. This paper does 
