actuarial and pricing specialists).” “There was good evidence of the audit team challenging the assumptions used by management in the division goodwill impairment model and the method used by management to apportion the goodwill between discontinued and retained operations.” “The audit team’s evaluation of management’s going concern assessment included robust challenge of the completeness and accuracy of the disclosures made regarding a material uncertainty related to the group’s ability to continue as a going concern, including the appropriateness of management’s downside scenario.” “The audit team undertook extensive procedures relating to going concern and evidenced their conclusions clearly. They engaged the actuarial specialists who challenged management’s going concern assumptions from a regulatory solvency perspective and prepared a report for the engagement partner setting out their findings. In addition, the engagement partner had meetings with senior management to challenge their assumptions and discuss alternative scenarios, all of which was clearly documented. Taken together, this represented a clear summary of the audit team’s challenge and the procedures they undertook to assess the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern.” “The audit team presented its audit approach and findings in a way which clearly demonstrated the effective exercise of professional scepticism and consequent challenge of management in respect of key audit areas. This was demonstrated further when the audit partner delayed signing the audit opinion until sufficient and appropriate audit evidence had been provided.” “The audit team’s planning, audit procedures and basis for conclusions were clearly corroborated and commensurate with the entity’s risks. This allowed the audit team to demonstrate considerable challenge of management, including the assessment and judgemental audit differences identified. Furthermore, the audit partner delayed signing the audit opinion until all outstanding items were cleared and audit adjustments were finalised.” Execution – Specialist and experts Relevant audit specialists or experts should 
