is imperative that a policy against retaliation is complemented with a monitoring process that includes sufficient ‘shielding’ practices and the importance of confidentiality must be emphasised throughout the whole process. Framework A culture of speaking up and challenge is promoted through governance and leadership commitment and sufficient employment of resources. Effective speak-up arrangements also require a foundation of policies and procedures that are reviewed and refreshed regularly, considering relevant laws, regulation, and best practice. Leadership and governance Ethical leadership inspires a culture of trust, respect, and inclusion, and fosters an environment for ethical conduct and behaviour. An oversight function that is visible to all in speak-up arrangements, investigations, and matters related to victimisation demonstrates the firm’s commitment to a wider ethical culture. Governance is the framework for accountability within which the governing body sets the tone for an ethical culture and ensures that policies and practices align with these objectives. Policies and procedures Speak-up policies and procedures support the firm’s code of conduct and the firm’s commitment to conducting business with integrity and fairness, aligned with the values of the firm. Together, the code and the policies and procedures should empower people to handle ethical dilemmas they encounter in everyday work and to report misconduct witnessed or experienced, giving the firm the opportunity to deal with the concern. In many instances, compliance policies and codes of conduct, in isolation, do not achieve their aim of triggering team members’ sense of duty and moral responsibility to speak up if they see misconduct or behaviour that would lead to poor audit quality. If policies and procedures are not supported by an appropriate culture, they will not inspire people to speak up. Resource commitment A speak-up culture is supported through the allocation of sufficiently trained resources covering all aspects of the process. Where 
