with one firm using pre-defined thresholds and a central tracker in order to identify and follow-up on outliers.” “Some firms use project management centres of excellence to provide dedicated project managers for large audits and project management resources. Some firms mandate training for all auditors on project management tactics.” “Some firms have a central oversight of the progress on the highest risk audits to monitor additional resourcing needs.” “Some firms mandate full team discussions at set points in the audit to drive timely debate of key judgements.”| Audit Firm Processes Audit firm processes can prompt and enable scepticism and challenge throughout the audit. These include hot reviews, engagement quality control reviews (EQCRs), consultations, use of specialists and centres of excellence, and sharing market and industry knowledge between auditors. Hot reviews of ongoing audits, by centrally allocated reviewers, support audit quality and challenge by involving experienced auditors, with a fresh perspective, as an additional reviewer or as a coach to challenge audit judgements and probe for potential biases. Hot reviews are most effective when they are timely and focused on higher-risk audits and the riskier and more judgemental audit areas. Using specialists on hot reviews facilitates the challenge of complex areas. Challenge panels, where central technical partners and specialists review the risks, procedures, and judgements on ongoing audits, also strengthen hot reviews. EQCRs review public interest and higher risk audits to challenge the audit risks, procedures, and judgements, focusing on complex areas. This is most effective when firms promptly identify where EQCRs are needed, allocate EQCRs based on skills, seniority, and independence from the audit team, train EQCRs on hot topics and recent quality findings, and provide appropriate guidance and work papers. Robust EQCR workpapers drive evidencing of the judgements reviewed, the challenges raised, the resolution of these challenges, and discussions