of an audit firm. Training & Coaching An audit firm provides its personnel with detailed formal training in the technical aspects of auditing. Equally important is training in the behaviours and mindset expected of auditors. Skills such as critical thinking and handling difficult conversations are essential for developing the ability to challenge externally and internally. For junior auditors, skills such as verbal communication, teamwork and confidence in challenging are necessary foundational skills whereas skills in leadership, time management and working under pressure become more important as auditors progress in their careers. It is important to bring the specific behaviours linked to high-quality audits to life with interactive training, calling out these behaviours explicitly and explaining what they mean in practice, for example, through the use of case studies, role play or scenario-based techniques. Auditors are most likely to engage and learn from formal training programmes that encompass a variety of formats, whether delivered virtually or in person. This may be enhanced by keeping training sessions succinct and ‘bitesize’ during busy periods so that auditors feel more able to attend. Involving senior auditors in training, either by asking them to facilitate or simply to attend to help to field questions, emphasises to junior auditors that scepticism and challenge are positive behaviours supported and expected by the firm. Senior participation is particularly valuable when seniors share personal experiences and specific examples of where they have applied scepticism and challenge. It is important to monitor training attendance and evaluate learning outcomes to ensure auditors are continuously and sufficiently equipped with the necessary technical knowledge and skills. Formal processes to collect feedback from training participants allows an audit firm to continually improve the format and content of training. Behaviours are difficult to learn through purely theory-based training; on-the-job coaching is the most impactful way 
